MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us
nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons & Dragons.
TRAVIS: (slurred) We play Dungeons & Dragons!
MATT: We're going to have Laura Bailey joining us
as soon as she comes in. She's coming in hot from
work, but she'll be here soon enough.
LIAM: Excellent mime work.
MATT: If worse comes to worst, Taliesin will
obviously fill in.
TALIESIN: (high-pitched voice) Hey! Hey guys! Oh
god, let her never see that.
MATT: She's in traffic watching right now going,
"I'm going to fucking kill him." Hi, Laura! Before
we get into tonight's episode, let's get through
our announcements for the evening. First off, we
have two wonderful sponsors tonight, beginning
with our first sponsor, our continuing
relationship with our friends at D&D Beyond.
ALL: D&D Beyond!
SAM: D&D Beyond, everybody, they're a great
organization. Here's the truth of the matter. I
wrote a piece tonight that featured heavily Laura
Bailey, but she's not here. We even had music for
it. Guys, hit that music.
[epic music]
SAM: Yeah, it was going to be great.
TRAVIS: Y'all going to hype me to death?
SAM: It was going to be pretty epic, but she's not
here, so I can't do it. I wrote another thing. I
thought, tonight, I could go to the D&D Beyond
webpage on my iPad here and read some stuff off of
their FAQ or their About Us because I don't have
anything planned. I'm going to go to my browser
right now. This is going to be fine! I was just
there earlier today, so I'll fire it up. Okay,
here it is. FurryDate is a matchmaking website for
the furry community. If you're looking for a furry
friend-- that is not-- that must have been another
site that wound up on my browser somehow. I will
go further back in the history a little bit. Oh!
Oh boy, that's a lot of skin. I think this site
might be called Double D Beyond. Okay, it's a lot
of pop-ups. I'll click on Install on all of them
to make them go away.
TRAVIS: Family show. Family show, Sam.
SAM: Okay, they're gone. This is great. This one's
great. It's not what I was looking for, but
there's this kid David, and he just went to the
dentist. It looks like he's talking real funny.
But that's not it. I'm going to go back a little.
I'm trying to get back in the history to the website.
MARISHA: Have you been on YouTube since 2007?
SAM: I just got to something. Apparently I owe the
IRS some money, and I have to go to Target to buy
a gift card to send it to them.
TRAVIS: I don't think that's real. I think
that's--
SAM: I think that's real. I might need to go after
the show. Oh, and here we go! Okay. D&D Beyond is
an amazing website that lets you create and store
your characters, load up digital books and
campaign guides, view stats for monsters, and so
much more. Plus, they have a great theme song.
Check them out. Show them the Critter love. Wish
them a merry Christmas with the hashtag
#BrianFosterSmellsLikeCabbage. That's all I got.
TRAVIS: Beautiful. Maybe erase your browser
history.
SAM: I don't think I can because I've lost control
of this whole thing.
MARISHA: That is a company laptop. Pointing that
out.
TRAVIS: You're fired.
MATT: Thank you, Sam.
SAM: Close.
MATT: Thank you, Sam, and thank you, D&D Beyond.
Our second sponsor tonight is our fantastic
friends returning from The Rook & The Raven. The
Rook & The Raven, you've seen us discuss their
work before. They do fantastic campaign notebooks
for when you're running a campaign or for your
player characters to keep track of. Fantastic
Kickstarters throughout the year. The entire month
of December is dedicated to their school kit
charity drive. We've discussed it before, and
we're bringing it back. They're donating a hundred
percent of their December profits to teachers,
schools, and community centers to help them
establish and grow tabletop gaming clubs and
classes. To help create a space for the young
generation to come and enjoy these games in a way
that we never could growing up because this shit
was considered evil or a thing you don't do. That
has changed dramatically now. Allowing these
spaces for more kids to get into the space, to
meet friends, to learn social skills, to learn
creative writing, all the different things that
are so fantastic about playing these games,
they're helping doing it. Each of these adventure
club gaming kits will contain dice, books for a
table of six-- so that's a DM and five players.
Every item sold from now until January 20th will
not only add to the number of kits they can send,
but will also count towards leveling up the
contents of each kit to include additional
notebooks, sourcebooks, and adventures. Give the
gift of gaming right now at
therookandtheraven.com/criticalrole. Be sure to
follow them on Twitter @therookandtheraven for
giveaways, which they do often. Thank you very
much, friends, for coming along with us again.
Happy new year to everything and the wonderful
things you're doing for these wonderful kids.
Thank you.
TRAVIS: That's incredible. Five players is a lot.
Phew, that's good.
MATT: Yeah, imagine more.
TRAVIS: Matt, why do you make things so evil?
MATT: We announced at our State of the Role, on
our channel, we have a bunch of new shows like Pub
Draw with Babs Tarr. MAME Drop we've continued
into a show that's coming out in the new year, in
which we play a bunch of random games on the MAME
Cabinet you got to see built as part of All Work
No Play! Check out details on those upcoming shows
at critrole.com. This is our last episode of
Critical Role of 2018, folks.
TRAVIS: Oh man, how did that happen?
MATT: I know, it's nuts. The campaign's gone a
year.
LIAM: No one die in the last one of 2018. Don't
die!
TALIESIN: But then you'd have so much time to come
up with a new character.
MATT: That is true. If there was a night to do it,
this is the time.
LIAM: We're closing in on four years.
TALIESIN: What? No.
TRAVIS: That's insane.
LIAM: That is correct. Almost four years of D&D
here. Hmm. Feels good.
TALIESIN: That's crazy.
MATT: That's nuts. Well, they're not sick of us
yet, hopefully. But yes, we'll be back from our
holiday break January 10th. That will be our
returning episode, so mark it on your calendars.
We look forward to seeing you then. Also, be sure
to tune in Tuesday, January 8th, 2019 for a very
special, campaign-as-it-currently-lies Talks
Machina, where most of the cast will be there to
discuss things that have happened, questions they
may have. I won't answer most of them because I'm
a dick. It's going to be fun! We're going to
discuss all things that have happened and answer
your guys' questions. Make sure you don't miss
that on January 8th at 7:00pm Pacific. Also,
tomorrow night.
LIAM: Tomorrow night!
MATT: Tomorrow night, Liam's fantastic Nightmare
Before Critmas one-shot is airing at 7:00pm
Pacific, here at twitch.tv/criticalrole, with the
VOD going up Sunday the 23rd, this very weekend.
So to prepare you right for the Christmas holiday,
or far after any holidays you may be celebrating,
or anything in between, whatever it may be, this
is going to be a fun one-shot.
LIAM: It was a thing. It was very special.
TRAVIS: It was a lot of fun.
MATT: Yes, stuff went down. So enjoy. It was a
wonderful way to kick off the holiday. Unless I am
mistaken, that is the last of our announcements.
TRAVIS: Aw shit.
MATT: With that, friends, let's jump into
tonight's episode of Critical Role.
MARISHA: (singing) Critical Role!
[water bubbling]
[thunder]
[explosion]
(chanting) Role! Critical! Role!
[dramatic Critical Role theme]
LAURA: Roll the dice! (singing) The adventure
begins, they were always beside you, your nerdy
best friends, and the DM to guide you. And they
rise from the flames for the battles ahead.
Villains beware 'cause you're about to be dead.
ASHLEY: (singing) They got magic and flair, they
got falchions and cunning. They don't see over
there there's a monster incoming. Inspiration is
waiting, rise up, don't think twice. Put your fate
in your hands, take a chance, roll the dice!
(chanting) Role! Critical! Role!
ASHLEY and LAURA: (singing) Can you answer the
call? Diggin' deep in your soul as the legend
unfolds. Now it's your turn to roll!
[fire burning]
MATT: Welcome back. Last we left off, The Mighty
Nein had been making their way through the Swavain
Islands in the Lucidian Ocean after vanishing from
the island of Darktow with the damaged
Squalleater, renaming it the Balleater.
TRAVIS: As you do.
MATT: As you do. Managed to escape from the
Diver's Grave and the ship graveyard that turned
out to be, as well as the entity that lived there.
You had acquired another sphere of Uk'otoa--
ALL: (whispering) Uk'otoa.
MATT: Every time.
LIAM: Uk'otoa? (parrot caw)
MARISHA: Who brought a fucking parrot? Damn it,
Jester.
MATT: Upon making your way to the Bisaft Isle to
get repairs for your ship as it limps along the
ocean, you discovered that you had a stowaway who
had followed you on the ship since Darktow. The
delightful gnome named Twiggy befriended you and
revealed the item which had sent her on her path
to becoming a stowaway, the strange clockwork
arcane sphere that she seemed to have stolen from
an auction house to keep away from a bad man. Upon
toying with this sphere, you discovered that it
seemed to have some sort of planar elements, bits
of conjuration magic to it, and was dispensing
coins and cold weather attire. A little more
tweaking sent you somewhere else. The present
party was transported to some extra-planar
dungeon, if you will, an abode of a hundred plus
rooms that apparently belonged to a mage from long
ago. Upon exploring and making your way through
the various traps and tricks, you managed to avoid
a few pitfalls, trigger a few others, gather a few
objects, fight a cabinet, find some books, and end
up teleported in a scattered fashion into the
realm of a young blue dragon.
LIAM: A lot happened real fast.
MATT: Yeah. For two of you, by the skin of your
fucking teeth, you all managed to figure out the
way to trigger the exit and escape in time, with
Twiggy dealing a final blow to the dragon on the
way out, of which some of you may believe her, as
no one was present to watch it happen. After
which, you made your way-- you realized you'd been
missing for six days, that there was some time
dilation between the time you spent in the sphere,
or at least within a few chambers in the sphere,
versus the time out here. The crew had been
waiting for a number of days. The repairs had been
completed on Bisaft Isle. You guys decided to call
it an evening and rest up, lick your wounds, and
reflect over what had transpired in the past day,
the past week, the past month, who knows. With
most of you going to a rest, and Beau and Caduceus
heading up to the top of the ship to calm and
discuss these things, you all called it a night.
So Mighty Nein, as you are still at dock on Bisaft
Isle, what would you like to do the following
morning?
TRAVIS: That's what I was going to ask. What time
is it?
MATT: Let's say it's a long night's sleep, because
there's a lot of recovery. So I'll say, without
any sort of necessary reference to wake you up for
an early point, you sleep in till near noon.
MARISHA: Perfect timing!
LAURA: Hi, guys!
ALL: Hi, Laura!
LIAM: Now we're complete.
LAURA: Mostly.
TRAVIS: We just started and we slept in all the
way till noon.
LAURA: Yeah, that would be really nice.
TRAVIS: You can take your backpack off.
LAURA: I know.
TRAVIS: Well, I suppose we should mosey out and
get the lay of the land, as it were.
SAM: Okay, Wilford Brimley.
TRAVIS: I don't know why I'm like this. I slept
real heavy, mm-kay?
(laughter)
SAM: Yes, we should go walk around.
TALIESIN: I could use some solid land. That'd be
nice.
LAURA: Whose donut is this?
SAM: That's mine; this one's yours.
LAURA: Sweet! Keep going, guys.
MATT: The one that says: This is Laura's; don't
fucking touch--
LAURA I didn't know there was a donut in there; it
just said Don't Touch.
TRAVIS: What else could it be?
SAM: Before dinner?
LAURA: (mouth full) Yeah.
MATT: To be fair, that's one of the perks of being
an adult.
SAM: That's true. Caleb, did you want to maybe
look at some books before we leave?
LIAM: Do you know anything about this island? Is
it large?
MATT: You know a little bit. You've passed here
once or twice. It's the largest of a set of four
parallel islands, but for the most part, it's not
really cultivated. The jungles here are fairly
thick. The fruit trees and exotic creatures make
it an interesting pass-by port, but also a
dangerous thing to push into. The thick mangrove
trees choke most of the coastal areas except for
on the south, which is where the actual town of
Bisaft Port is, which is where you guys are
currently set. You do know that, because it's
cluttered, it tends to be a favorite spot for
contraband out in the jungle, but the creatures
that live there are pretty dangerous, so most
people avoid that. There are some remaining signs
of the Ki'Nau people that used to be indigenous to
these islands before they all became part of the
Clovis Concord. That's about all you know. I mean,
it's a small village, maybe 800 people or so.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll relay all that stuff in my own
tongue and say: I'm sure there's stuff. It grows a
little bit each time I come by here, so there
could be new stuff I haven't seen before. Worth a look.
LIAM: Mm-hmm. I think that I will stay behind on
the boat but I think you should go. If you see any
incense, I would appreciate it if you picked some
up.
SAM: You're going to just stay? Are you going to
go look through the stuff that we got?
LIAM: Yeah, probably. Ja.
SAM: Do you want me to stay with you?
LIAM: (clears throat)
TALIESIN: Well at the very least, maybe you should
have Nott try and open some of those funny locks
on the books before we go so that you have an
easier time getting into them.
LIAM: Did we not open them?
TALIESIN: I don't think we opened the individual
locks on the books. I think you just grabbed
locked books.
MATT: Not all of them. I think a few of them were.
Part of the locking mechanism was embedded in the shelf.
LIAM: I think I actually will be all right,
though.
TALIESIN: Oh! And I grab this one, too. There was
one more that you didn't get to see.
SAM: Oh! Thank you! Yes!
TALIESIN: I don't know what it is. I just picked
it up. Seemed like the thing to do.
LIAM: Thank you.
TALIESIN: Yeah, anytime.
TRAVIS: What about paper? Aren't you always
needing papier?
LIAM: I don't get the sense that a lot of
high-quality paper and ink makes it to this
island, but I have been wrong before, so if you
see any would you bring some back and I will
reimburse you?
TRAVIS: Yeah, of course!
LIAM: I'm just going to take it easy today.
TRAVIS: All right, fair enough. Where's Jester?
LAURA: I'm coming downstairs.
SAM: Downstairs?
LAURA: Yeah. Downstairs from my upstairs cabin.
SAM: Sure, sure.
MATT: Sure.
SAM: There's just one above-deck cabin.
LAURA: I slept in the crow's nest.
TRAVIS: How are you doing this morning, Jester?
LAURA: (heavy sigh) I'm okay.
TRAVIS: Yeah?
LAURA: Mm-hmm.
TRAVIS: You want to go out and explore a little
bit?
LAURA: Sure.
TRAVIS: Are you okay? I know the day's escapades
were a bit much. Little close.
LAURA: It was a lot, yes. You disappeared, Fjord.
TRAVIS: Yeah, well you did, too. Every time I
popped into wherever I was, I could see you pop in
and then pop out and I kept wanting to go make
sure you knew we were getting the fuck out.
LAURA: Oh, right. In the dragon room, too. I was
talking about in the library, though.
TRAVIS: Oh. Yeah, well it was the damnedest thing.
I just touched it. Like, you know. Didn't know if
it was rough or smooth or cold. Didn't expect to
be like (glass shattering) ah! None of that shit. Boop!
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Maybe I won't do that so much anymore.
LAURA: Sometimes you just need to touch things.
TRAVIS: Yeah! What are you grinning at, goblin?
SAM: Nothing. You have a compulsion. I just think
it's funny.
MARISHA: You are a bit handsy sometimes.
TRAVIS: Are we not all intrigued by things that
don't belong or seem out of place?
LIAM: Yeah, but you know, I don't offer a lot of
muscle to this group but I do have a little bit of
knowledge. So, you know, in situations like that
just give me a moment to have a look around the
room, please, Fjord. Yes, thank you, Beauregard.
TRAVIS: Yes, that's fair.
MARISHA: I mean, it's hard because I do pretty
reckless things. I don't know. I honestly feel
like everyone feels terrible about how that went,
but you know, when you look at on the whole, we
did okay.
LAURA: Twiggy said that the dragon is actually
dead now.
MARISHA: I believe her, actually.
TRAVIS: I didn't even ask. What was in the room
before I got ripped out of there?
LAURA: Lots of books.
TALIESIN: Angry furniture.
LAURA: Oh, yeah. A cabinet swallowed Nott, no,
Twiggy. It all kind of ran together.
TALIESIN: A lot happened.
LIAM: Lot of books.
TALIESIN: There was a doll, too, if I recall.
There was a doll, there were some marbles, dust, a
lot of books.
SAM: Oh yeah, we got a thing of marbles and a
thing of ink.
TALIESIN: Ooh, did you get the marbles and the
ink? That's nice.
TRAVIS: Wait a minute. When I disappeared, you
didn't immediately come and try and find me? You
went and got stuff?
LAURA: I did. Beau did.
TALIESIN: Honestly, we were trying to figure out
what had happened.
TRAVIS: Hmm.
SAM: Caleb and I knew where you were and wanted to
ascertain...
MARISHA: Yeah. Honestly man, when you did that you
were totally alone and by yourself. It took us a
minute to figure out what exactly had happened and
what you touched.
LIAM: Yeah, maybe you were locked behind something
or there was some way to release it in the room.
LAURA: Yeah, it wasn't like everybody left you.
You left us.
TRAVIS: Yeah, that's true.
TALIESIN: My mother was a big believer in the
buddy system. Growing up in the woods, buddy
system. Always should have a buddy.
SAM: Should we all have a buddy? Should we call
these now? I call Caleb.
TALIESIN: We know.
SAM: Well I just wanted to make sure that I got
Caleb, but you guys, maybe you should buddy up for
future encounters.
TRAVIS: How about I just keep my hands in my
pockets going forward into strange new rooms by
long-dead wizards, potentially.
SAM: Good luck. You can't fight a compulsion,
man.
LAURA: You would know, right?
SAM: I know. Get that itch. Got to scratch it.
TRAVIS: I think I got a button around here
somewhere.
SAM: Ooh!
MARISHA: Jester.
LAURA: Mm?
MARISHA: I hope you know, my intention wasn't to
abandon anybody, especially not you. I thought I
was going to have to activate the damn sphere and
it was going to open up a portal or something. I
didn't know it was going to immediately take me
away from the fight. I'm sorry.
LAURA: Of course! Really, I was invisible, you
guys. I wasn't there.
SAM: So we're all still friends?
TALIESIN: Oh, yeah, okay. Oh, I see this, yeah.
LAURA: You were in a wall, dude.
TALIESIN: I was in a wall.
LAURA: That's pretty cool.
TALIESIN: Yeah. I think that everybody here thinks
that this is their fault. Raise your hand if you
think what happened yesterday was your fault.
MARISHA: I mean, I might have a part in it.
LAURA: I mean, partially. If I'd have done better
against the dragon--
SAM: I didn't do anything wrong!
TALIESIN: What do I roll?
MARISHA: I think that's true.
MATT: Insight, sure.
LAURA: I don't need an insight check. I believe
it.
TALIESIN: 18.
SAM: I don't think I did anything wrong!
TALIESIN: I usually find that if everybody thinks
that they're the ones that did something wrong,
it's because nobody did everything wrong. You just
had a string of luck. I think everybody did really good.
MARISHA: I agree with that.
TALIESIN: I think that we all got out of there. I
think that we all tried our best and we're going
to do better next time. I'm feeling very
positive.
TRAVIS: Thank you, yeah!
SAM: That's a great pep talk.
TRAVIS: Need that uplifting-- yeah!
TALIESIN: You survived a dragon.
LIAM: Also, we're giving you a hard time, but
there was no reason why I needed to keep fiddling
with this thing, and I pat the satchel that I have
the ball in. Could have left it well enough alone.
TRAVIS: I appreciate that.
TALIESIN: You took a risk. Risks are okay. Got to
be careful what risks you take, but without risks,
we're never going to get what we want.
MARISHA: That's a good point. What do we want?
TALIESIN: Well, I think we want breakfast.
MARISHA: Yeah. Get off this godforsaken boat for a
damn minute.
TALIESIN: Then we can have a talk about that.
TRAVIS: That is a great idea. In fact, you should
lead the way. I have a feeling you'll be able to
find the best spot.
TALIESIN: Excellent. I don't actually even know
how to get off this boat. We haven't done it
properly in so long.
TRAVIS: Oh, the gangplanks, it's right over there.
First mate, show them how!
MARISHA: Okay. Do I show them how? Am I first
mate-y enough?
MATT: You've learned enough, yes.
TALIESIN: Roll for first mate.
TRAVIS: Do you know where the fucking exit is?
Because I might not.
MATT: You have proficiency bonus. Okay, so you
guys head back up to the deck and over towards the
dock. Couple of things you notice. One, you
haven't really been out of the ship to see the
port. By the time you guys returned it was
nighttime and didn't have, really, a good view, as
at night on this island, there really isn't a lot
of light; it shuts down at dusk.
MARISHA: You're talking about Bisaft?
MATT: Bisaft. There's a lot of ships. Probably
about 20 or so. They're mainly Concord military
vessels, similar to the one you saw and avoided on
the outskirts of Nicodranas. Glancing over, there
are a few groups of soldiers on the docks
stretching. Looks like they're loading supplies
into the ships. They're making a stop and the
ships are waiting for others to fill up because
it's a small dock. It's mainly meant to maintain,
at most, six or seven ships at a time, so they're
having to go in waves to take supplies and they're
probably cleaning out some of what Bisaft Port has.
TRAVIS: As we make our way by, can I identify a
low-ranking member of one of the crewmen of one of
those ships as they're, perhaps, reaching for a
bundle or something?
MATT: Sure, yeah. There's a number you can go
ahead and stop. There's one of them nearby that is
sitting there stretching legs and gathering their
supplies in a small sack. They probably bought a
few things to take on the path.
TRAVIS: You there! By gods, you guys are stocking
up something fierce!
MATT: "Yes, we are making our way through the
waters. This is just a quick stop."
TRAVIS: Amazing. Do you mind if I ask where all
this traffic is going?
MATT: "Well, with the recent attacks, the war at
the Empire, it's getting a little hairy, so the
"Marquis Olesya Lapidus is calling many of the
warships to the southern coast to be a precaution
"near the border."
TRAVIS: Oh, I understand. I'm sorry to hear it's
moving so aggressively. Are you concerned, or do
you feel strength in your numbers?
MATT: (noncommittal consideration) "This is a
conflict between them, but it is still important
"to be careful. We have an alliance from a trade
standpoint with the Empire, but they are not
"entirely the most pleasant people, so they can
deal with their problems and if comes to us, we'll
"keep it to the shore. The good news is, as far as
I know, Xhorhas isn't a naval-oriented people.
"What I have heard," and he leans in a bit, "is the
underelves apparently snuck past the mountain
"range and attacked further inland. Felderwin was
assaulted and the fields were set ablaze."
LAURA: What, where was--?
MATT: "A smart move in cutting the food from the
people, eh? These beasts are clever. Be careful."
SAM: He said Felderwin.
MATT: "Felderwin, yes."
TRAVIS: I'm sorry to hear that. Just in case our
travels take us in your direction, is there any
particular route or island that we should avoid
just to stay out of your hair?
MATT: "I don't think-- We are running along the
coast and just heading to the southern area south
"of the jungles and a little bit past Nicodranas
and keeping a boundary in the waters."
TRAVIS: That should be far away from where we're
heading. I wish you a safe journey, my friend.
MATT: "You as well." He grabs his stuff and throws
it over his shoulder and heads back to the rest of
the crew.
MARISHA: Wait, the Xhorhasians snuck under the
mountains and attacked Felderwin?
TRAVIS: That's where they attacked, yeah.
LIAM: That's deep in.
LAURA: That's really-- yeah.
MATT: Apparently set some of the fields ablaze.
You passed by Felderwin when you were traveling
both north and south on that road there and it's a
heavy source of agriculture. In fact, it feeds a
lot of the military.
TRAVIS: Yeah, we might return to a different
empire.
LAURA: Fjord.
TRAVIS: Yeah?
LAURA: Ask them where they're from, all the
troops. Did you already ask that?
TRAVIS: Yeah, they're from outside Nicodranas.
LAURA: So they won't know who we are?
TRAVIS: I think they have bigger fish to fry.
Plus, we got a new boat, right?
MATT: At this point, you hear a (throat clearing).
You turn around and you see a human male in his
mid-40s with salt and pepper brown hair with a
thick mustache, somewhat stained linen clothing
with a length of rope wrapped over his shoulder,
and he goes, "Hello, I'm Dockmaster Podderan. I was
"the one patiently waiting, I guess, for you all to
return and pay for the good repairs that were
"required of my crew. So if you want to pay up, or
we're going to have to keep the Balleater ourselves."
TRAVIS: No, indeed.
MATT: "Curious name, Balleater, by the way."
TRAVIS: Yeah, it is one born out of circumstance.
We have every intention of paying. I just haven't
received the bill from my first mate yet.
MARISHA: I frantically search for a bill that I
probably don't have.
TRAVIS: You definitely don't.
MARISHA: I look at the dockmaster; I go: Give me
the bill.
MATT: Reaches into his satchel, pulls out a small
leather ledger, past a few pages. There's little
counts, a couple notes there. Tears it out and
hands it to you. It's for 225 gold for full ship repairs.
LAURA: That's more than they said when we came
out.
TRAVIS: I'll take care of it. I'm the one touching
little red things. 295?
MARISHA: You're taking care of all of it? Did we
have any--?
MATT: 225.
TRAVIS: 325?
MARISHA: His Grog is showing. Was there any money
left on the ship from Avantika?
MATT: No. That pot was taken by Darktow when they
came aboard.
TRAVIS: Yeah, when they came and cleaned it out
after the fucking razzle-dazzle.
MARISHA: So all the money we have is pretty much
the money we have.
MATT: Correct. That was the other downside with
Avantika being wrapped up in this whole plot in
Darktow was, as soon as she was executed, they
commandeered anything that belonged to her crew
and left you guys the ship. With the supplies on
the ship: you got to keep the cannons, the
cannonballs, the gunpowder, basic supplies that
were left over for survival and upkeep, but
anything of worth was taken by Darktow as their
prize.
TALIESIN: We're going to need to wash some dishes,
aren't we?
TRAVIS: I cut my gold in half, holy shit.
MARISHA: Fjord.
TRAVIS: Yeah?
MARISHA: We might want to consider having a
communal ship fund. We'll talk about it later.
TRAVIS: Here is your 225 gold. Thank you for your
careful inspection and repair of the ship.
MATT: "Appreciate that. All right, well, when're
you planning to head off?"
TRAVIS: Oh, in the next day or two, we're just
getting our bearings about us again. We'll be out
of your hair shortly.
MATT: "Could you leave possibly by end of day?
I'll give you back 30 gold if that's the case. I
"need to--," and he looks off towards the ships
that are waiting and goes, "I kind of need the space."
TRAVIS: I would love to tell you yes, friend, but
the best I could do is let you know before sundown.
LAURA: Maybe for 50 gold we could get out,
though.
TRAVIS: No.
MATT: Make a persuasion check.
TRAVIS: We have stuff we have to do, don't rush us
out of here!
LAURA: No, that's not very good. Eight!
MATT: He goes, "Well, come find me," and he points
over to one of the nicer coastal huts set up right
at the outside of the docks.
TRAVIS: Ooh, nice. Yeah, we'll find you. I promise
we'll be as expedient as possible.
MATT: "Right." Turns back and heads off to his
business. Various military crews are still running
up and down the docks carrying supplies to and
from. What would you guys like to do?
TRAVIS: Walk inland.
MARISHA: Breakfast! Caduceus.
TRAVIS: Yeah, and eyes up as we pass things along
the way.
TALIESIN: I'm walking towards where I think
breakfast is.
MATT: Okay. Make a perception check.
MARISHA: Come on, you're a foodie.
TALIESIN: Natural 20! I was really looking forward
to having no idea, but apparently--
TRAVIS: We've got to make more of a fuss about
that, that's pretty cool.
TALIESIN: Hold on, I got Yelp. I cast Yelp.
MATT: The closest place-- the scent catches your
nose. There's a place called the Bisaft Meadery.
LAURA: Meatery?
MATT: Meadery.
LAURA: Oh, Meadery.
TALIESIN: Oh, that's better. I was like: Mm,
okay.
MATT: No. It's a small, open-- It looks like a
simple tavern, but only the back half of it has
walls where it's a thatched top. There are support
beams, and there are a number of tables and stools
set up and a number of mead barrels set up in the
back as well as an open grill made of metal rods
welded over each other and a bunch of wood burning
beneath it. Some of the people that live here in
Bisaft that run this meadery are preparing an open
breakfast, essentially, and a lot of the soldiers
are crowding over and filling up spaces. The scent
catches your nose of cooking boar and various
fruits and vegetables that are also being mixed
in, giving you this sweet meat scent that hits you
as you're stepping off the dock. The closer you
get, you realize you've got to get there pretty
quickly because it's starting to fill up with a
lot of these soldiers. As you get to the food, it
smells delicious. It's made for a mass meal for
the number of people that are here, so this is
their way of preparing as much as they can, so
it's nothing meticulous. It's nothing gourmet,
necessarily, but it looks delicious and it looks
serviceable.
TALIESIN: I can pick around the boar; that
shouldn't be a problem.
LAURA: You don't eat boar?
TALIESIN: I don't eat boar.
LAURA: Do you eat meat?
TALIESIN: I don't eat meat.
LAURA: Really?
TALIESIN: Have you not noticed?
LAURA: I haven't!
TALIESIN: Oh. Yeah, no. I mean, we've barely
cooked with any of it in the last month.
SAM: But meat tastes very, very good!
TRAVIS: Yeah, and so does the stuff that you make.
I just assumed you were conjuring, you know, sea
pigeons and stuff.
TALIESIN: It's mostly seitan. There's a few
different things I use. You can really get an
effect, it's--
TRAVIS: Seitan?
LIAM: (Mickey Mouse voice) Hail, seitan!
TALIESIN: Making me call my vegan cooking not
legit. My god, I'm mad right now.
TRAVIS: Quinn-wah?
TALIESIN: There's a lot of paprika. Pasta burgers.
A lot of beets. I'm excited for this.
TRAVIS: Are we relatively free of furtive glances
as we make our way through?
MATT: Yeah, due to the nature of this being a
small port and the military that are coming in
through here. People live here from all over; you
can see a spectrum of skin tones that lead you to
believe that there are people both who come from
the Ki'Nau, who are from the island, people that
have settled from the Empire, folks that have come
from Marquet and come here and even probably is a
few super pale folks here that may have found
their way over from Issylra. For the people that
live here, it's a fairly diverse cultural capital,
though a lot of it seems to be mostly ingrained,
at least the basis of it, in the Ki'Nau people and
the base of a lot of the Menagerie Coast.
TRAVIS: Jester, can I make you a plate?
LAURA: No, I think I'm okay, Fjord, thank you.
TRAVIS: Okay, cool. Should we bring Caleb some
food?
SAM: Yes. Yes, we should. I can take him some in
my pockets.
TALIESIN: Pocket boar.
MATT: Pocket bacon, pocket boar.
TALIESIN: I'm going to try some mead.
SAM: Some mead, not meat.
TALIESIN: Not meat. But I am going to try some
mead.
SAM: Okay.
MARISHA: Yeah, how much is a bottle?
MATT: Well, you go ahead and ask. There's maybe
four servers that are running around like crazy
that are in the process of handing things out and
taking stuff, but there is one individual you see,
this woman in her late 50s, early 60s. Beautiful
brown skin, big smile, a little heavyset, who
seems to be looking over the place like she is the
owner of this meadery. Looks over to you and, as
your eyes meet, notices the look of, "I need
help," and goes over and goes, "Hello, darling.
"How can I help you?"
MARISHA: I think he wanted to try some mead, I
wanted to try some mead, and then we wanted to buy
some mead.
MATT: "Well, I can help with any of these, of
course."
MARISHA: Mm-hmm.
MATT: "What's your name?"
MARISHA: Beau.
MATT: "Beau. Well, a pleasure to meet you. I am
Bentha Tamalos, and welcome to my meadery."
MARISHA: Benth-- can I call you Ben?
MATT: "Call me Bentha, please."
MARISHA: Bentha. Pleasure.
MATT: "Pleasure to meet you as well, darling.
Well, how many bottles would you like? Do you want
"to have glasses separately or do you want to just
buy bottles and serve yourselves?"
TALIESIN: It smells really sweet. What's the
sweetest thing you've got right now?
MATT: "Well, it's all pretty sweet. It's all
brewed here with our island-cultivated honeybees."
TRAVIS: It's sweet, you'll like it.
SAM: Let's just get a couple of bottles and
share.
TALIESIN: Sure, I think that sounds like a great
idea.
LAURA: You keep bees here?
MATT: "I do as well, yes."
LAURA: Can I see them?
MATT: "Mm... they're not immediately local. Would
you like a tour of our hives?"
(laughter)
TALIESIN: This is going to go so well.
MATT: "I do have to ask, unfortunately, there is a
tourist price for the tour."
LAURA: How much is that?
MATT: "Five silver."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: "All right. The bottles are 15 gold a piece.
You wanted two bottles, that'll be 30 gold, and
"you wanted how many cups? Or do you just want your
bottles?"
SAM: Bunch of cups! Bunch of plates of gristle and
meat and boar and fat.
TALIESIN: Do you have anything that's more-- less
meat?
MATT: She looks up at you and goes, "Do not worry,
honey, I get you, no problem. All right. I'll
"prepare this." She does some calculations and
goes, "All right, for all of that together with
"your glasses for each of you, the meals prepared
for each--"
SAM: Some tripe. Maybe some knuckles.
LAURA: Some pastries, if you have them.
MATT: "Unfortunately, not much of a pastry
opportunity out here on the Swavain."
LAURA: (mimicking Bentha's accent) No cookies, no
doughnuts?
MATT: Her smile maintains, but the eyes go hard.
But she goes, "No doughnuts. However, for
"everything involved, that would be 35 gold for all
glasses of mead, all food provided."
MARISHA: Could you get it?
TRAVIS: Don't look at me, I'm shit broke.
TALIESIN: I'll throw a little in on this.
MARISHA: I took 30 if you want to take the other
five.
MATT: "And five silver for the tour for this blue
young woman over here."
TALIESIN: That seems very fair.
MATT: All right. The food is presented. It smells
wonderful. The din is quite loud now as the
various naval officers and naval soldiers of the
Clovis Concord are surrounding the space and
chatting, talking about bullshit. Some of it is in
Common, some of it is not. While you guys are
eating your food, anything else you want to do?
The mead is quite good; it is very sweet. Even
just finishing one glass, you're like, "Oh, this
is dangerous," and probably going to give you a
headache if you're not careful. What?
MARISHA: Nothing.
TRAVIS: How many glasses did you have?
MARISHA: Just one.
TRAVIS: Ren faire, ah!
MATT: Yeah, severe Ren faire flashbacks.
LAURA: I don't want any mead; I just want the
honey.
TRAVIS: Three o'clock.
LAURA: Yeah!
MATT: As you guys are in the process of eating
your food, a recently-awoken and somewhat
harsh-looking morning Yasha wanders over.
MARISHA: You found us again. This is the sixth
time. You just know where we are.
LAURA: Well, she was on the boat with us.
TRAVIS: She was on the boat, Beau.
MARISHA: I know, but she was just-- we're in a
restaurant.
ASHLEY: You guys just didn't wake me up for
breakfast?
SAM: You were sleeping; you were snoring really
loud, and it sounded like you were angry snoring.
ASHLEY: Well, yeah, I guess, I did tell you I'm
angry when I sleep. I don't like being woken up, I
forgot, but it would've been nice to be woken up.
SAM: I'm sorry.
MARISHA: This is precisely why we didn't wake you
up.
TRAVIS: But we did make you this plate of food.
MARISHA: Right, yeah.
ASHLEY: (gobbling)
MARISHA: I pour her a very large glass of mead.
TRAVIS: I'll go over and find Bentha and be like:
Can we get one more plate of food, please?
MATT: Comes by and slips it over.
TRAVIS: I'll hand that plate of food over to Nott:
There you go. No, it's not for you!
SAM: Oh.
TALIESIN: Back out, back out.
SAM: (food coming out of mouth noises)
MARISHA: (laughter)
MATT: As you guys are finishing your meal and
Yasha's quietly staring into the plate and eating
with a distant intensity, like she's prone to--
TRAVIS: We're fitting to explore a little.
MARISHA: We were going to go on a winery tour.
TRAVIS: That's not--
SAM: No, that's not-- we were going to look for
incense and supplies.
TALIESIN: Insects, supplies.
TRAVIS: Maybe some weapons or some potions that
might help should we find ourselves--
SAM: We might also want to discuss what we're
doing next. I mean, we just had this crazy escape
from Pirate Island and now-- what are we doing,
where are we going?
LAURA: Do you want us to go to this temple?
TRAVIS: I mean, I would like to, yeah. I saw it in
my visions and I haven't had any other dreams
since. I feel like this might be a good chance to
put a dagger in it, you know? Finish it up.
SAM: Do you know where?
TRAVIS: Yeah, I have a feeling it's right in the
middle of the archipelago that's just south of
here. Maybe a day and a half, maybe two days most,
depending on--
SAM: So more traveling on the water?
TRAVIS: Just a little bit and then we can go back
to land. Nott. With the promise of land and no
more requests to go to sea, if you'll do this for
me I would be most obliged.
MARISHA: Fjord, what was that naval officer--?
SAM: I will go.
TRAVIS: Thank you, Nott.
MARISHA: Sorry. What was--?
SAM: He's being very nice today.
LAURA: Yes, I think he feels guilty.
SAM: I know he feels guilty. He asked you to
accompany him off the boat, he offered to make a
plate of food for you, he's being nice to me.
LAURA: I know.
SAM: (gasp) Is he hitting on you?
LAURA: No.
SAM: I think he's hitting on you.
LAURA: No, he's not.
SAM: Are you sure?
LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: What did that naval officer say to you
about the war? What was I hearing?
TRAVIS: He was saying they've made their way south
into the fucking town of... Nipple Bottom--
SAM: Felderwin.
TRAVIS: Felderwin, yeah.
SAM: It's where some of us are from.
TRAVIS: Yeah, we've been right near that area.
LAURA: You're from Felderwin?
TRAVIS: Oh.
SAM: Around there, yeah.
TRAVIS: It's far more south than they've been
previously.
MARISHA: Does that freak anybody else out?
SAM and MARISHA: Me.
LAURA: What about your... you know?
SAM: I don't know.
MARISHA: It's not far from my hometown either.
TRAVIS: Really? That maybe changes things.
MARISHA: From Kamordah.
(rustling noises)
SAM: Go to the map.
TRAVIS: Point. Oh. That is pretty far west.
MARISHA: Yeah, but he said that they were
traveling under the mountains, and Kamordah is a
mountain town, so...
ASHLEY: Who's traveling under the mountains?
LAURA: The Xhorhasians.
SAM: Your people.
MARISHA: They got under the mountains and attacked
Felderwin.
ASHLEY: Huh.
LAURA: That's what all these soldiers are here
for; they're going to join the fight or something?
What did they say, Fjord?
SAM: Reinforcements?
TRAVIS: They were going down the southern coast,
yeah.
ASHLEY: Oh.
TRAVIS: Most likely in an effort not to get
flanked.
ASHLEY: Yeah, okay.
MARISHA: I think we should still go to the temple,
though.
TRAVIS: Well, I don't feel quite as energetic,
knowing that where you both are from is under siege.
MARISHA: Well, I'm just being paranoid.
SAM: I'm always paranoid.
LAURA: What if we went to the temple and then
headed back? No dilly-dallying, we just go and
make sure that everything's okay.
TRAVIS: It may only add a day or two at most. I
would be most appreciative.
TALIESIN: No sense reading two-thirds of a book.
Let's finish this up, see what it has to say.
LAURA: Are you going to try to-- what are you
going to do to Uk'otoa?
LAURA and TALIESIN: (whispering) Uk'otoa.
SAM: Did you self-echo?
LAURA: Yeah, I did.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: I don't know. I just thought I'd feel it
out when I got there, all current and past events
taken into account.
SAM: Feel out whether you would raise Uk'otoa from
the dark and join its dark ways?
TRAVIS: No, no, god, no--! No. I do have two of
these spheres, and I can't help but notice the
extra shamalamadingdong that Avantika got by
depositing one of them. I could keep the third and
certainly keep that crazy fucking snake at bay. I
would like to see this through. Otherwise, I feel
like I'll always be wanting to get back here.
LAURA: Plus, we still haven't found out about
Vandran.
TRAVIS: Right, but he could be fucking anywhere. I
want to do this because we're here. We can worry
about that later; it's a wide, wide world.
SAM: Okay.
MARISHA: So we find the temple, and then what? I
guess, go back to Nicodranas first, yeah?
TRAVIS: We might have to go through Port Damali,
actually. Nicodranas is a little hot for us. But
we could. We could let your mom know that you're
okay.
LAURA: I mean, I can message her. I've been
messaging her.
TRAVIS: Well, maybe see how you feel when we're on
our way back. We wouldn't want to go around the
southern tip; that's where the troops are heading.
I feel like danger might be that way. It might be
best to go the way we came.
LAURA: Okay.
SAM: All right.
TRAVIS: So maybe some supplies? Something to buff
us up a bit?
LAURA: Some bees.
TRAVIS: Some bees, yep.
TALIESIN: I think some bees would suit you.
LAURA: I just really want to see them.
TALIESIN: You can talk to them.
LAURA: I really want to talk to them.
TALIESIN: I've talked to many bees in my time.
LAURA: Really?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
LAURA: You can teach me the language?
TALIESIN: I mean, you just: Hey, bees. How're you
doing?
SAM: 'Sup, bee?
LAURA: Hi, bees. Okay, okay.
TALIESIN and LAURA: Bzz.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Yasha, is there anything you need while
we're in port? Anything you've been craving while
we've been at sea?
ASHLEY: No. No, I just-- You guys were gone for a
really long time.
LAURA: We didn't mean to be, Yasha.
ASHLEY: You were gone for six days.
TRAVIS: We didn't have any idea that that was
going to happen.
MARISHA: Yeah, we-- Yeah.
ASHLEY: I looked for you guys everywhere in that
room. I was just worried, is all.
MARISHA: I'd be mad at us, too.
ASHLEY: I don't need anything from here. I have
everything that I need, so if we need to go, we
can go.
TALIESIN: Thank you for looking everywhere in that
room. That's really nice.
ASHLEY: Well, I just turned around, and then you
all were gone.
TALIESIN: Yeah, it was crazy in there.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
SAM: Did you have funerals for all of us? Must
have taken a lot of time. Like one a day.
TALIESIN: I mean, that actually would have covered
everybody, the more you think about it.
SAM: Was mine nice? Did anyone come? I guess not;
you were on the ocean. Did you say anything?
ASHLEY: I did say some things that I probably
should not share with you, Nott.
SAM: Like, they're bad words or something?
ASHLEY: Something like that.
SAM: You cursed at my funeral?!
ASHLEY: I didn't have a funeral for you.
SAM: I didn't even get a funeral?! Everybody else
did!
ASHLEY: I didn't know if you were actually gone!
SAM: Everyone got a funeral but me!
ASHLEY: No! None of you did.
SAM: Oh my god! You didn't give any of us
funerals?!
ASHLEY: Because I didn't know if you were alive or
not! I was still holding onto maybe that you were
and you just disappeared and you just didn't want
to stay with me anymore! You didn't want me part
of the group!
LAURA: Yasha, we want you to be part of the
group.
MARISHA: Oh, Yasha.
ASHLEY: No, I don't mean it like that. I'm not
saying, you know, "Woe, poor me," or something, but--
TALIESIN: Wait, was "alive or not" a joke? I
always get confused when people use the word "not"
in a sentence. Was that supposed to be a--?
SAM: It's confusing. Okay. Group rule: if any of
us are missing for four or more days, we hold a
funeral. Right? It's four days.
TRAVIS: Well, let's make it an even seven, like a
week, right? Because that sphere's pretty fucking
sweet. Not that I have any interest in messing
with it any further.
SAM: Hells no.
LAURA: If that dragon is dead, there's a lot of
stuff.
TALIESIN: Though every time we did a little thing,
a little of that loot comes out.
TRAVIS: Well, yeah, just a little. There were
fucking treasure troves in there. Not that I'm
interested in that. I'm all for playing it safe.
Measured. Practical. That's my middle name. Fjord Practical--
SAM: What's your last name?
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Fjord Practical.
LAURA: Fjord Practical?
MARISHA: It's the next sedan coming out.
TRAVIS: Are there any potion shops around here?
LIAM: Test drive a Ford Practical today.
ASHLEY: What else have you found in there? Is
there anything else? Did you already look at everything?
LAURA: Caleb got some books.
TALIESIN: Caleb is actually not over here.
SAM: Caleb's back at the boat.
MARISHA: He decided to take some personal time to
himself.
LAURA: To look at some books.
TALIESIN: Everyone was a little thrown by what
happened.
LAURA: We almost died, Yasha. And then we really
would have been dead and then we wouldn't have
come back.
ASHLEY: I never would have known.
LAURA: No.
ASHLEY: You fought something?
LAURA: There was a big blue dragon.
ASHLEY: Eh.
TRAVIS: No bigs? No sweat?
MARISHA: Oh, a Tuesday?
TRAVIS: Are you going to show us the notches on
your upper delt for all the ones that you--
ASHLEY: Well, I can, but I ran out of notches on
my belt.
(cheering)
TRAVIS: Fire!
MARISHA: She holds up a handful of shreds. Just
fucked up.
LIAM: All those teenagers in hoodies are going
like--
TRAVIS: It was pretty gnarly.
ASHLEY: Well, I'm glad you guys are safe, for
whatever the fuck it's worth.
TALIESIN: It's worth a lot, and probably we'll be
a little more careful about poking things separately.
TRAVIS: I was testing the texture. It wasn't even
a push; I just touched it.
TALIESIN: No, it's the buddy system. No blame
going around.
TRAVIS: Before we go on the bee tour, if there's
any time, do we see any magic shops? Weaponry?
MATT: Make an investigation check.
TALIESIN: We're doing the bee tour.
LAURA: I want to see some bees.
SAM: I'm looking for incense stores.
TRAVIS: 16.
SAM: 16.
MATT: Okay. Magic shops, just so you guys are
aware, are super rare. There's one in Zadash, and
there's maybe one or two in Rexxentrum.
TRAVIS: So there's definitely one here.
MATT: There's definitely not one here.
TRAVIS: Three. Competing for the same turf.
MATT: They're a relatively rare thing. But
herbalists are not too hard to find, and healing
potions, while they can heal, the crafting of one
doesn't require massive arcane knowledge. It's
through knowledge of medicines and proper brewing
techniques. However, the army has bought up a lot.
There are two regular healing potions you can find
for sale for-- marked up because you're at sea--
70 gold apiece.
TRAVIS: Oh, fuck!
SAM: Island prices.
LIAM: Where else are you going to go?
MATT: You can try and haggle, if you want to.
LAURA: You've got two clerics. You don't need it.
TRAVIS: I put a lot of healing potions into my
group.
MARISHA: I'm getting poor, you guys. I'm getting
D&D poor.
TALIESIN: I'm going to try and find a blacksmith.
SAM: Really? I've got lots of money.
TRAVIS: Why don't you buy us a couple potions?
SAM: Yeah. I'll buy both healing potions.
TALIESIN: There may not be much time for such
things, but I was--
MATT: Depends on what you're looking for. There is
a blacksmith by the name of Keisha Budan who does
most of the metalwork for the ship repairs and
other general goods that require metalwork around
the island.
TALIESIN: Keisha?
MATT: As you approach the space she has-- you can
tell from the large smokestack pouring out of the
top of the forge that she keeps-- but as you
approach, you can see a young woman in her late
20s or so, massive arms, her thick black hair
pulled back into a tuft, and she has a leather
apron on. You can see now a lot of metal
reinforcements used for holding beams together in
shipbuilding, and she's laying them out one by one
as she finishes hammering and then quenching and
then hammering and quenching. As you walk up, she
rubs her brow. "Can I help you?"
TALIESIN: Possibly not. Seems like you have your
hands full right now. I was hoping to, at the very
least, get a professional opinion about
something.
MATT: "I can do my best. I don't get many like
your height in here, anyway."
TALIESIN: That's what they tell me.
MATT: "At the very least, I'm looking forward to
sating my curiosity."
TALIESIN: Well, I've recently taken to travelling,
which, very new experience for someone of my
disposition, and I came across something
interesting and I was curious if you had an
opinion on what this is and how one might fix it.
I pull out a broken sword.
MATT: She takes it.
TALIESIN: I was really hoping to be doing
something with this at some point, and giving it
as a gift to a friend who could use a pick-me-up.
MATT: "This is very good craftsmanship. I could
not do this. Unfortunately, the break is very bad.
"Do you have the other part of the weapon?"
TALIESIN: Sadly, I don't. It may not exist.
MATT: "If given maybe a week with the right
materials, I could maybe try to work on it, but
"honestly, your best bet is probably to go into the
coast. We don't do much in the way of masterwork
"weapon craftsmanship here on Bisaft. My
apologies."
TALIESIN: Oh, that's all right. They're definitely
trying hard to get us to leave a little sooner
than we'd necessarily like to.
MATT: "It has been very busy this past day or
two."
TALIESIN: Has everything been all right, by the
way? This seems like a lot of commotion.
MATT: "It's a lot of commotion, but they'll be
gone soon. We get waves of people coming through."
TALIESIN: Well, thank you so much for your time. I
don't know what I could possibly do in return
other than offer my gratitude.
MATT: She sits up for a second and looks you over.
"Can I have a hug?"
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Yeah. I go in.
MATT: She goes and takes it and cuddles you.
TALIESIN: You want the spine lift?
MATT: "Yeah."
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: "Thank you. You're quite fuzzy, and I was
curious."
TALIESIN: Oh, thank you, it was a pleasure. I look
forward to coming your way again one of these days.
MATT: "Any time. We're here on the island. Nowhere
else to go."
TALIESIN: This is awfully nice.
MATT: "There are worse places to live, I'll tell
you that. Have a good day. What's your name?"
TALIESIN: Caduceus.
MATT: "Caduceus. Keisha."
TALIESIN: Keisha. It's a pleasure.
MATT: "The pleasure was all mine."
TALIESIN: I will wander back to the bees.
MATT: You walk away to the sound of (clanging) in
the background as she goes back to work.
SAM: Did I find any incense?
MATT: Because spice trade and various-- spices,
not spice-- trade here is quite prominent as
well as other such materials in that same avenue,
various herbs and compounds used in alchemical and
medicinal purposes, yeah, you can find incense
here, actually. It's marked up a little bit.
Because it's Bisaft and because it's a trade post
out in the middle of the ocean, the people can
charge a little more and they know they can.
Depending on how much incense you want to get?
SAM: He did not give me an amount, so what's a
normal amount of incense that you would need for a
month of incense burning?
MATT: For a person burning incense in their
house?
SAM: Yeah. Like a hippie person.
MATT: We'll say about 20 gold worth, which would
cost you 25 here.
SAM: Okay. I'll take 50 gold worth.
MATT: Okay. So you take 50 gold worth, but it'll
cost you 60, we'll say. You mark off 60 gold, but
you write down you have 50 gold worth of incense.
SAM: Great. Cool. Okay.
MATT: All right. The bee tour.
LAURA: Hello, bees.
MATT: She takes you around behind the meadery.
There's a jungle path that leads through the very
lush, green trees, and it's a very humid day. The
morning was a little gray in the sky and it looks
like it might rain in the next few hours or so.
She leads you through and is talking about how
many years her family has been running the meadery
and it's a wonderful place. There isn't much of an
interest in mead out here in the island so she
feels like she cornered the market a bit. She has
friends that bring it to the other island towns
and it makes a fair amount of money. She's very
proud of it. As she's doing the talk, she leads
you around. There are a small sect of wooden hive
setups. You can hear already as you approach the
slight hum of them. There's a young boy, maybe 12
or so, who is wearing a very thick smock with a
hood, who is in the process of scooping out some
of the honey.
LAURA: Whoa! Do I need to wear a thingy?
MATT: "Oh, well, stay here, preferably. Do not get
close enough to let them sting you and if one's on
"you, don't freak out and smack it, please."
LAURA: Okay, but I really want to go up to them.
MATT: "The tour is not intended to bring you that
close."
LAURA: Hello, bees? Hello, bees. Please come over
here and let me say hello.
MATT: She looks very confused and goes, "Okay?"
TRAVIS: (laughter)
LAURA: I start walking very slowly. Hello, bees. I
want some honey!
MATT: Do you say that?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: She goes, "Well, if you want honey, I can
get you honey."
LAURA: Yeah, but I want the honeycomb straight
from the thingy!
MATT: "Ah."
LIAM: Roll for Nic Cage.
MATT: "Misan!" The little boy goes, "What?" "Bring
some honeycomb over here for a customer!" "Okay!"
He cuts a little piece off with a dull knife and
holds it on the edge of the knife and walks over.
You see the bees covered up his arm and he puts it
over and hands it to you.
LAURA: Wow!
MATT: It's gooey. It's very sweet and very waxy.
LAURA: It's really good. It's like gum, but sweet.
Can I have a jar of it?
MATT: The boy heads back to his work and she's
waving some of the bees away and goes, "Sure.
"Let's walk back. I'll be happy to sell you a jar
or two. How many would you like?"
LAURA: With the actual honeycomb in it?
MATT: "Of course!"
LAURA: I want two jars.
MATT: "Two jars. That'll run you five gold
pieces."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: "All right." She claps her hands together
happily and leads you back, telling you more about
the waves of various traders and merchants that
come through. Some individuals, some names, she
throws out that she's met and flirted with and one
that asked her to marry him when she was younger
but she turned him down. You have no idea who any
of these people are, but you can't help but be
half-fascinated, because they're stories. You have
two jars of honey plus honeycomb for five gold.
ASHLEY and LAURA: Hello, bees!
TALIESIN: I think I come wandering in about the
point where they're saying "Hello, bees," because
this is really all I want.
ASHLEY: You can talk to them?
LAURA: Yeah! Say something!
TALIESIN: What do you want me to say to them? I
don't know.
LAURA: Tell them to come over here, but don't
sting us.
TALIESIN: Hold on, hold on. Let me do a thing.
MATT: You're approaching right as they're about to
leave from the hives.
TALIESIN: I'm going to take a little bit of the
tea out of my pocket. I'm going to try and get a
bloom going on my staff to try and get a flower to
start going on. If I can get something to start
going a little bit. It may not be temporary, using
the Decompose. I don't know if you'll let me do that.
MATT: A fungal bloom you can do with Decompose.
Druidcraft would be the creation of flowers, unfortunately.
LAURA: Maybe they like mushrooms.
TALIESIN: Well, I can ask. Hey, guys. I don't have
any flowers, but I have some mushrooms. I don't
know if you'd be interested, but you're welcome to
come over and take a look. It's probably going to
rain pretty soon. It's looking a little iffy.
MATT: (buzzing) They're doing their business.
They're not paying any attention to you.
TALIESIN: They're working really hard right now.
LAURA: Yeah, they look like it.
ASHLEY: I've never seen bees before.
TALIESIN: You've never seen bees before?
MARISHA: Do you not have bees in Xhorhas?
ASHLEY: We don't have flowers.
MARISHA: Oh. Yeah, right.
TALIESIN: Wow.
TRAVIS: There's no greenery in Xhorhas?
MARISHA: She's been collecting all those flowers.
TRAVIS: That's sad.
TALIESIN: We should fix that, one of these days.
ASHLEY: I didn't know any different.
MARISHA: Do they have mushrooms?
MATT: In the moorlands, they have--
ASHLEY: In the moorlands, there's some.
MATT: It's a marshland, where you're from.
ASHLEY: It's a marshland, so there's
occasionally--
LAURA: Not colorful mushrooms, just brown and gray
and white? Maybe some black ones.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
LAURA: Cool.
TRAVIS: Anybody else have anything else they want
to grab?
SAM: I think we're good.
TALIESIN: I got what I needed.
TRAVIS: You got that plate of food for Caleb that
you ate half of?
SAM: I got the rest of it in my pockets. It's a
little wet.
TALIESIN: Is it possible to put some basic
supplies-- Is the ship already well-supplied for a trip?
MATT: You were given enough supplies for a week or
so off of leaving Darktow, and you guys can create
your own food and water. There's enough gunpowder
for a dozen or so volleys of cannon fire.
TALIESIN: I'd say a little bit of spice, so that
the food that we're creating doesn't taste too bland.
TRAVIS: By all means.
TALIESIN: Would not be a bad idea, because the
magically-created food is spongy.
MATT: You can drop a gold piece and be good for
the next two weeks on flavoring the food for you
and the crew.
SAM: Should we set off, or are we exploring this
place more?
TRAVIS: Is it still before sundown?
MATT: At this point in the day, it's starting to
get close to dusk.
TRAVIS: Might get some money back.
MARISHA: 30 gold feels like a lot right now. Just
saying.
SAM: I wonder what Caleb's up to right now?
MATT: Which, Caleb, during this time--
MARISHA: (flashback riff)
MATT: As you've spent most of the day on the ship
to your own devices, what are you doing?
TRAVIS: Pooping!
LIAM: I am a morning pooper, so that happened at
the very beginning. Once I watched Yasha leave the
boat, I would have snapped Frumpkin to, and set
him purring, and worn him like a scarf. Go back to
my chambers, and slowly and methodically take out
the silver wire, and cast Alarm outside of my
doorway. Then take another ten minutes to cast
Leomund's Tiny Hut as a ritual in the room, so
that the bubble goes up to the door. Then I will
take out the jar of beads, and the thing of ink,
and the sphere from Twiggy. I would rest that on
the table. Then, as memory serves, there was one
book with arcane equations open on the table,
which I put away. Was there a second book on the
table, at that point, as well? There was two we
got in our rush, and Caduceus just gave him one.
MATT: Correct. You have four books total, I
think.
LIAM: I would set all four books down in a row,
and the sphere is there, and these two items.
Stare at them.
MATT: One thing you notice about the sphere: its
arrangement is entirely different. Remember where
all the places where you had shifted since you had
gotten it from Twiggy? Since you've returned, it's
like an entirely new sphere. It has completely
refigured its surface. The bands have shifted. All
the different places where you'd place your
fingers and thumbs to try to move the different
hemispheres are in completely different places. It
seems that whatever you triggered to get you to
the internal space and then returned from reset it
in some way. The puzzle has started all over.
LIAM: After a minute of feeling Frumpkin purr away
and staring at them, I say in my own language, in
Zemnian, I say: Well, you piece of shit, you
should probably get to work. I sit down, and I
will Identify the two items. I will check out the
books, and if any of them are locked, I will cast
Knock on them to open them.
MATT: That's easy enough to do. The jar of beads.
TRAVIS: Every Flavor Beans.
MARISHA: Each one is a Fireball.
LAURA: Beads, or beans, or bees?
MATT: The book.
LIAM: Bees, or bees, or bees.
TRAVIS: Beans, and beans, and beans.
LIAM: And bees, and bees.
TRAVIS: Fucking ridiculous.
LAURA: Ugh, I hate that he doesn't say what it is
out loud!
TALIESIN: This is his favorite thing to do, to
hold a card and watch all of us wait for him to
show it to us.
ASHLEY: Was ist das?
TALIESIN: Was is das? Das ist gut.
MATT: All right, so that's the spell book.
LIAM: Is the ink normal?
MATT: The ink is not normal. It is faintly
enchanted specifically for the intent of scribing
magical things. For the purposes of scribing
scrolls or scribing spells into spell books, the
ink will make up to 500 gold worth of scribing.
You still need paper, but essentially, any
parchment can be made useful as if was the most
premium of spell craft parchment with that ink.
MARISHA: Fucking score.
TRAVIS: (whispering) Write it on your body. All
over your body.
TALIESIN: Your body is a road map of pain.
TRAVIS: (whispering) Memento.
LIAM: That is probably it, I would--
MATT: You have the books, too. The other books.
LIAM: Oh, right. Yes, correct. Yes, let's inspect
the other three.
MATT: One of which, after reading through, it is
essentially a number of studies on the effects of
alchemical compounds on corrupted plant life.
There is one that speaks of public debate records
within the forum of Zeidel regarding the moral
implications of arcane experimentation on
prisoners of Ghor Dranas and warnings of the war
with the gods. It's a transcript of a debate
forum. All you know about Zeidel-- make a history
check, actually.
LAURA: Zeidel High, that's where Grease takes
place.
LIAM: 21.
MATT: From your studies, Zeidel was one of a
number of extremely erudite societies in the Age
of Arcanum that had harnessed crystals to make
their city hover aloft. There were a handful of
these in the Age of Arcanum that could travel
across Exandria, cities that were mobile. As far
as anyone knows, all of them had been wiped out
during the Calamity. Zeidel, as far as you've
learned, is one of them. That's all you know.
TALIESIN: (whispering) We're going to find the
lost island of Teddy Ruxpin; I'm ready for this
shit. Let's bring it.
LIAM: That's two?
MATT: Mm-hmm. The last one discusses the theories
behind the ice fields and the underreaches of
Eiselcross and the beasts that live and endure
it.
LIAM: Eiselcross.
MATT: Eiselcross. E-I-S-E-L-C-R-O-S-S. Eiselcross,
you know, is a rather large body of land to the
north of the main Wildemount continent. It's
considered part of Wildemount overall, but it's
just a frozen arctic cap.
LIAM: Not separated in any way, just frozen over,
to the north, or is it separate?
MATT: It's separate. The Frozen Depths-- there's a
large channel of water that separates the main
body of Wildemount and Eiselcross, but aside from
two very small ice fishing villages that are
expansions of the Dwendalian Empire, it is mostly
uninhabited. Nobody really goes there. There's a
bunch of creatures that have spent a millennia or
more living in that place that are extremely
dangerous, and it's just snow and ice, so nobody
goes there.
LIAM: Okay. Well, there's nothing else that I
would do. I would say that all the time they were
gone, he sits rolling the ball on the table and
speed reading these books. That's it.
MATT: Cool enough. All right.
TRAVIS: (whispering) The Frozen Depths.
MATT: Eiselcross is far north of that.
TRAVIS: (whispering) Oh, farther north.
LIAM: (whispering) Even Frozen-er Depths.
TRAVIS: (whispering) Off the map, or on it?
MATT: Off the map.
TRAVIS: Fuck!
TALIESIN: We're going off the map, man! Probably
need a special boat for that.
TRAVIS: I thought it was time for some Mercer
Mystery. Shit.
MATT: You guys manage to make your way back. You
manage to recover your 30 gold from the
dockmaster, Podderan. You get back to your ship and
you, Caleb, hear the rest of your party return as
the rest of the crew begins to prepare for setting
sail off the dock.
MARISHA: I go over to Caduceus and I pull him
aside really quick.
TALIESIN: Oh!
MARISHA: Hey Cad, I have a thought.
TALIESIN: Cool.
MARISHA: As you may have heard, I have now become
first mate.
TALIESIN: I didn't know that; people don't tell me
those sorts of things.
MARISHA: No, really? No one told you?
TALIESIN: Oh, they might, I just might forget.
MARISHA: Sure.
TALIESIN: You may have already told me, I don't
know.
MARISHA: I probably have. With that
responsibility, I started thinking about the crew,
and maybe we haven't been treating them the best
that we could be. You know, I think they're okay.
I don't think that we're abusing them, but maybe
neglecting them? Anyway, I got this extra bottle
of mead for them, and I thought maybe, with some
of the stuff we got, maybe we could do a nice
dinner for them or something to just show our
appreciation.
TALIESIN: I think that's a very good idea.
MARISHA: I really don't want to get stabbed in the
middle of the night is what I'm thinking, so it's
a little bit still selfish. But really don't want
to die by one of these fuckers.
TRAVIS: Show our appreciation to these fuckers.
TALIESIN: You made Caduceus laugh, oh no. It's not
even me laughing. Well, I can think of worse plans
than a nice bottle of wine with a card that says,
"Please don't stab me in the middle of the night."
MARISHA: Oh, a card! I didn't think-- you think
they'd appreciate that? I could write that down, yeah.
TALIESIN: You know, I actually think that maybe
not giving them the idea in the first place might
be a better-- well, yeah, I think the big deal
will be when we finally do find a little money,
making sure it spreads around a bit.
MARISHA: Good call.
TALIESIN: But, bringing back some of the mead and
dispersing it amongst the crew is definitely a
sign that we're probably going to do that when we
do. That is very astute of you.
MARISHA: Thanks. I feel like a first mate should
be astute.
TALIESIN: I have a confession. I don't know what
astute means; I heard one of the crew use it, so
I'm hoping it means a good thing.
MARISHA: It does; you used it pretty correctly, I
think.
TALIESIN: I was mirroring something somebody else
said.
MARISHA: Deductive reasoning, you've got it.
Nailed it, man, yeah. Good work. Okay, I'm going
to go now.
TALIESIN: Okay, yeah.
MARISHA: I start prepping the boat.
MATT: All right. With that, as everyone gets
prepared, Orly comes out from underneath the deck
and turns to you and goes, "Captain, where about
are we taking off towards?"
TRAVIS: Navigator, set course for the Gravid
Archipelago, "ar-chi-pelago", "ar-ka-pelagos".
MATT: "It's 'ar-chi-pelago'."
TRAVIS: "Ar-chi-pelago."
MATT: "We'll go ahead and make sure we're heading
that way." He turns around to the rest of the
crew, begins giving a couple orders, heading over
and getting his map out. Pull up the anchor and
slowly, you guys begin to make your way out onto
the Lucidian Ocean just as the sun begins to set.
Now the sky itself has been pretty gray and
cloudy, and you've been smelling the coming of
weather. No more than 20 minutes after leaving,
the rain begins.
TRAVIS: This is fucking unexpected; the skies were
pretty clear.
LAURA: Caduceus knew that it was going to rain.
MARISHA: He did.
TRAVIS: Huh. That is one smart cow.
MARISHA: I was waiting for your response.
SAM: How's Yasha? Is she staring off into space,
or just doing stuff?
(laughter)
MATT: For most of this travel, you've kept an
aspect of your consciousness looking out for
errant weather, and there've been a few moments
where some rains have come through-- that brief
interaction with the Diver's Grave in which a
storm was conjured, but it didn't have the same
feel that you'd been hoping, whatever this draw
was that drew you southward and to run into these
friends again at the coast. As you begin to push
further and further towards the direction of the
storm, there's an excitement in your belly that
you can't describe.
ASHLEY: Okay, cool.
TALIESIN: You're looking for a sign?
ASHLEY: I guess I'm always looking for a sign,
now.
TALIESIN: Me, too.
ASHLEY: Yeah? How did you know it was going to
rain? I mean, other than the obvious, gray skies.
TALIESIN: Well, the skies were turning; the wind
was coming in; and I honestly have to mention my
knee hurts a little bit on the left side, usually
about an hour beforehand. It was a thing my sister
did. It was 25 seasons ago, give or take. She's a
piece of work. She's great. A piece of work.
ASHLEY: It just hurts when it gets cold type of a
thing?
TALIESIN: Yeah, usually half a day before it
rains.
ASHLEY: That's a pretty great indication.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: As the rain begins to hit the deck itself,
the endless patter of heavy droplets smattering
against the dark wood, the winds begin to pick up
a little bit, and some of the crew begins to look
off. You see Marius glance off and go, "Captain,
should we put up the storm sails? The wind's
"picking up a bit."
TRAVIS: Of course. Storm sails, it is. On the
double!
MATT: It takes them a little bit--
TRAVIS: Why aren't they up already?! [inaudible]
MATT: They start diminishing the presence of the
regular sails and getting smaller, more durable
sails pulled up in there.
MARISHA: I pay attention.
MATT: You're probably helping them with it. It's
an all hands on deck thing to get this going
quickly. With that, they begin to pull the sails
into place. The wind immediately picks up again
once the sails are back in, and the wind is
starting to pick up a bit heavily. You see Orly
glancing over the edge, his large shell slick with
rain smattering against the backside of it, as he
turns around towards you and looks at you through
the darkness, the little bit of light there is
from oil lanterns being held across the deck.
Goes, "Captain, I think we're heading into a
"proper storm."
MARISHA: Damn, could you be more ominous, Orly?
Were you trying? I think he was trying.
MATT: (more ominous) "Captain, we're heading into
a proper storm."
MARISHA: That was good. I think that was pretty
good.
MATT: "Smartass."
TRAVIS: Orly, do you see any way around this
storm, or just through it?
MATT: "We can if we take a few more days to--"
TRAVIS: Unacceptable. Push through.
MATT: "Aye, aye, Captain. All right, everyone! All
hands on deck!"
SAM: There's flashes of light over there. I don't
know what's happening.
MATT: As everyone gathers to begin to ford out
into the evening--
TRAVIS: Safe, practical, measured.
MARISHA: Yeah, I was almost like: Captain?
TALIESIN: That's an amazing list of things that
you are not.
MATT: Your nerves are slightly set on edge as you
can see the distant flashes of lightning arcing
from storm to ocean, the heavy sheets of wind
obscuring most of these bolts. With that, the rain
gets heavier and heavier. I need you, as the
captain, to roll a survival check for me, if you
don't mind. I'll give you advantage on this.
MARISHA: O Captain! My Captain!
SAM: Hey, before we go into the storm, you want to
look in the old fate-changing thing?
TRAVIS: I had advantage on it already. 14.
MATT: Well, that adds onto advantage.
TRAVIS: Oh, does it?
MATT: Yeah, it acts as a luck point. It actually
technically is a third die, but you've already rolled.
TRAVIS: Okay, 14.
MATT: Okay, good. Keeping it steady in going in,
the ship's handling it fine. The winds are heavy,
but the repairs you made, thankfully, have brought
the Balleater up to a very functional ship. The
crew is experienced, and now that they seem to be
a little more comfortable under your leadership,
and with the help of the rest of the party - you
guys have taken some time at sea to learn a number
of skills that are helpful - your first bit of
evening travel into the storm seems to be going
well. It goes on for a few hours. The storm
doesn't seem to be getting worse, necessarily, but
the waves are rocking quite a bit. Eventually,
into the early hours of the morning, sleep is
going to have to come to some of you, at the very
least.
TALIESIN: I definitely could use some sleep.
MATT: So you're going to sleep. Who's staying up
for how long to keep watch? Or you can leave it to
the crew; it's up to you. They're experienced, but
you're the captain.
TRAVIS: No, I'll stay up.
MATT: You're staying up? Where are you staying?
TRAVIS: At the helm.
MATT: At the helm. You're staying there with Orly.
Orly's staying with you. Anybody else?
MARISHA: Do you need me to stay up, Captain?
TRAVIS: No, get some rest. I might need it in a
bit, when this dies down.
LAURA: I'm going to stand at the back of the
boat.
MATT: Okay. Standing at the back of the boat.
Everybody else sleeping?
ASHLEY: I'm going to stay up, of course. Just
watch.
MARISHA: Before I go to bed, I would like to talk
to Jester, unless Jester is having some alone time
and it doesn't seem like it's the right time.
LAURA: No, I just want to be able to Control Water
if something happens.
MARISHA: Oh, you're here keeping watch? That's a
good call, actually. Going to stay up much longer?
LAURA: Depends on the storm, I guess.
MARISHA: Yeah. Motion sick?
LAURA: I'm okay.
MATT: The wood is creaking with each shift of the
boat as the waves climb higher and higher,
occasionally slamming into a valley between.
LAURA: Feels like a carnival ride.
MARISHA: It's a little spooky, right? It's fun,
though. Listen, I wanted to talk to you for a
moment. I'm not really good at this sort of thing,
but about what you said last night, about being a
good liar. You're right. You really are a good
liar.
LAURA: Thanks, Beau.
MARISHA: Yeah. I think it takes one to know one. I
think being a liar means when I know you're not,
does that make sense?
LAURA: Yes.
MARISHA: And when you are. Look, we all get sad. I
want you to know that. I haven't told you really
any of this, but I also had a lonely childhood.
LAURA: You did?
MARISHA: Yeah. I didn't have a lot of friends. My
father was very protective because of certain
things that he believed, so I wasn't allowed to
have a lot of friends. Really any friends.
LAURA: You could have used the Traveler in your
life, too, then.
MARISHA: Maybe. Maybe I would have turned out a
little bit more like you. I admire that in you. In
my loneliness, I got angry and turned to bad
things, but in your loneliness, you turned to
creativity. I think that's beautiful. I really
do.
LAURA: I'll tell you a secret.
MARISHA: Okay.
LAURA: Sometimes I'm angry, too.
MARISHA: Really? I don't think I've ever seen you
angry.
LAURA: It's a sight to behold!
MARISHA: I'd like to see it someday.
LAURA: Someday I'm sure you will.
MARISHA: I'll be proud of that, too. Anyway, I
know you like to look for friends. I don't know if
I'm best friend material. That might be a lot of
commitment, especially with my commitment of being
first mate.
LAURA: That's really big, yeah. You already have a
lot on your plate.
MARISHA: It really is, but you don't have to look
far for a friend. Anyway, I'll leave you to it.
LAURA: I give her a hug from behind as she's
walking away.
MARISHA: I hug her back from behind.
LAURA: Thanks, Beau.
MARISHA: Love you, Jes.
LAURA: I love you, too.
MARISHA: Don't stay up too late.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: As the rest of you are enduring the chaos of
the rains above, keeping focused and keeping it
steady, it's exhausting, both the attention
required for you specifically and the hour being
late. Thankfully, you slept in, so you can go on
for quite some time. Yasha, where on the ship are
you standing?
ASHLEY: Anywhere I can be helping Fjord. If they
need help with the lines--
MATT: The lines seem to be okay. Fjord's at the
helm with Orly, so they're both towards the back.
ASHLEY: Okay. I want to stay anywhere on the boat
where the storm is most visible, so I guess--
MATT: Probably closer to the bow or the foremast.
ASHLEY: That's where I'll be.
MATT: Okay. In keeping this going, do you head
back up to help Fjord, or are you heading to rest
as well?
MARISHA: I head to rest. He gave me permission
to.
MATT: It's hypnotic, the sound of rain, and the
movement of the waves, and the flashes of light,
and the rolling of thunder. You grab the edge of
the rail of the bow, looking out straight into the
storm that you're passing into. It's a blur of
light and movement and darkness. The horizon
beyond your vision is obscured; it feels like
you're riding this into a tumultuous sky. You
begin to fall into a trance, your eyes closing for
but a second. We're going to take a break.
ALL: (groaning)
MATT: We'll be right back in a few minutes. In the
meantime, we do have our fantastic Wyrmwood
giveaway from our friends at Wyrmwood! This is an
awesome holly inlaid dice vault with burmese sal
burl wood with a red interior. This is a gorgeous
fucking piece. It feels nice. I want to keep it,
but no, this has to go to one of you lucky
winners. You have to move over to the Critical
Role Twitch chat at twitch.tv/criticalrole to
enter during the break. You can jump on back to
Geek & Sundry after, but the keyword tonight is
holiday. Put holiday once in the chat; more than
once and you'll be disqualified.
MARISHA: (singing) Celebrate!
MATT: Exactly. One lucky winner when we return,
from the US or Canada, excluding Quebec, as you
know. We'll back shortly, and we'll see you then.
MATT: Welcome back everyone. Before we get back
into it, the winner of our fantastic Wyrmwood
giveaway tonight is CoreyTHall. CoreyTHall,
congratulations! We'll get that sent to you ASAP.
I know, there wasn't a single dick joke in that
name. Congratulations.
TALIESIN: Way to grab that first. Not
"CoreyTHall6" or, you know? He got right in there.
Well done.
MATT: So the rest of you are currently either
focused on helping on the ship itself or are down
below deck, resting, sleeping, or concentrating on
whatever is needed. Taliesin? Oh, you're just
saying you're down there?
SAM: He was doing things with flourish, yeah.
MATT: Gotcha. It's important.
TALIESIN: That's the nicest way anyone has ever
put that; thank you.
MATT: As the sound of the storm and the movement
of the ship begins to lull you into this trance,
your lids grow heavier and heavier, and as your
fingers tighten and clasp the edge of the bow,
your vision goes dark...and you're kneeling. You
open your eyes, and you're cleaning a fox you
hunted and pulled from the nearby brush. You look
across the surrounding Iothia Moorland, the sheen
of the shallow pools dotting the flat swamp brush
landscape, the grays and browns of the valley
beneath the clouded skies that raised you-- this
is the home you knew. The muted colors are
comforting. You hear a voice shouted at a
distance. "Yasha!" You turn and see the rest of
your hunting party of the Dolorav Tribe. Walking
towards you, dirty and smiling, is Zualla, her
leather marked with mud, her brown eyes barely
visible under her tangled hair. "That's a hearty
"fox for one, care to share it?" The warmth in your
chest fills you. There's a flash of lightning
behind you. At that instant, you see Zualla,
fleshless and bone, then darkness once more.
Another subtle flash, but blue and muted. Another.
A roiling ball of storm clouds grows before you in
this veil of shadow, swelling as the interior
sparks and flashes with light intensely, and they
occur more and more rapidly as this sphere of
roiling storm grows and swells. You sense
something contacting you, and while it isn't
speaking with words, you interpret it through
language, through your mind. "Loss. Loss is
excruciating. Loss is paralyzing. Loss is
"inevitable. Loss can bring sorrow, bring hate,
bring cruelty and darkness." Another bright flash.
You see a muddied field of burning huts. Corpses
lie at your feet, your blade bloodied. A figure
turns to you, eyes aglow with yellow, their deep
red skin and hooked horns peeking from beneath
their folded wings. Their smile curls open. "Your
anger is beautiful to behold, Orphan Maker."
Another flash. Only the rolling storm remains.
(thunder crash) The thoughts return, this voice
coalesces into more of an actual throaty, deep
timbre. "Loss can instead teach you what is
"important. It offers perspective. It offers focus,
might, the courage to protect what has not yet
"been lost. To be alone, to push others away can
prevent loss, but it also prevents growth,
"strength, purpose. How much, how many will you
lose until you find your strength?" The thunder
gets louder and louder, cutting through the veil.
You find your consciousness tug at your mind and
slowly you begin to shake out of this fugue state,
the sound of muffled rain once again growing loud
around you, the cold sensation of it dripping
through your armor. Another crack of thunder. As
the dream begins to fade, the voice says, "Show
me. Show me what is important, what is worth
"protecting. This storm was birthed only for you."
Your eyes flicker wide, and you're back on the
edge of the ship. The wave hits the bow of the
ship once more. You hold tight, your hair slicked
down across your face as you look up, and with
that, a single bolt strikes down slamming into the
front of the ship. Where you expect to see
splintered wood and fire, instead there is just a
darkened spot, the impact muted. What you see
there instead: a creature, a man-like shape made
of crackling blue energy. It stands your height,
vaguely human-form, shifting with unstable power.
Suddenly, two vibrant wings of lightning open from
its back like an angel. It walks towards you.
ASHLEY: Are you him?
MATT: It's going to claw across the front of your
body.
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay, let's go.
MATT: All right. That is going to be a 16 to hit.
What's your armor class?
ASHLEY: 14.
MATT: All right.
SAM: 14? Don't you have a shield or something?
Jesus.
LIAM: She can rage; she doesn't need a shield.
TRAVIS: Rage doesn't raise it.
MATT: As it claws across the front of your body,
its hand seems to almost pass through the
resistance of the armor for but a minute before
you feel this shock to your system as it arcs
through; you feel the lightning pulse through your
body. You suffer eight points of bludgeoning
damage plus five points of lightning damage.
LAURA: Would we have seen the lightning hit the
ship?
MATT: You were below deck, and there--
LAURA: No, I'm upstairs.
MATT: Oh, you're upstairs. You guys watched a bolt
of light strike down towards the ship. All you see
is this faint, dull glow, like a mote of energy
that's rolling around. Make a history check.
TRAVIS: Me?
MATT: Yes.
TRAVIS: Ooh, 16.
MATT: You've heard tales of something called ball
lightning, bits of storm matter that just scatters
across. It's usually innocuous and people either
watch it fizzle out or get it thrown overboard. It
usually happens in the cusp of a storm, and you
watch it dance along the vicinity of Yasha. But
that's not what you see. I need you to roll
initiative.
SAM: Oh boy.
LAURA: All alone?
ASHLEY: I get advantage now. Oh, fuck. Ten.
MATT: All right, it's going first.
ASHLEY: My low fucking initiative!
MATT: As you reel from it, reaching back for your
blade, the creature seems to be intent on you, its
form seeming to shift and bend with the wind and
the rain. It's going to reach out towards you for
two more strikes. That is going to be a 13 to
hit?
ASHLEY: 14 armor class.
MATT: That's going to be a 16 to hit.
ASHLEY: That hits.
MATT: That is going to be five points of
bludgeoning and two points of lightning.
ASHLEY: Which brings me to seven total? Okay.
MATT: It's your turn.
ASHLEY: Okay. Now that I know this is not who I
thought it was, I am going to rage. I would like
to rage, and in that rage, I'm going to unfurl my
wings.
TRAVIS: Oh shit, that's only the second time, I
think.
MATT: Your skeletal wings flare out from under
your back, your hair blown up from the wind and
the impact of the wings flying out from underneath
the shawl. It needs to make a wisdom saving throw,
I believe?
ASHLEY: Charisma saving throw.
MATT: That is a six. It has no bonus. It is afraid
of you for how long?
ASHLEY: Sorry, this is-- one minute.
SAM: Okay, that's good.
MATT: All righty. Does it get to save at the end
of its turn, or is it just afraid of you?
ASHLEY: Hold on. (mumbling) "Be frightened of me
until the end of the next turn."
MATT: Okay, got you. Oh, and then it lasts for a
minute if you do the extra damage. Once during
each of your turns you deal extra necrotic damage
to one target when you do damage to it. It equals
your level, so you do an extra seven points of
necrotic damage once per turn to it. Keep that in mind.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: That's the end of the round. You guys look
over and watch Yasha at the end, this mote of
lightning dancing around her, rolling across, but
slightly hovering above the surface of the boat's
deck. Suddenly, she unleashes her fallen form, the
wings rising up. Other members of the crew that
are holding down the ropes see this and take a
step back, not entirely familiar with this appearance.
TRAVIS: Steady!
ASHLEY: Only within ten feet.
MATT: Correct. They're not frightened of you.
They're just really spooked by the reveal. It's
going to swirl around you; suddenly, it seems to
move with pulses of energy with an unnatural
speed. Whips to the opposite side and it is going
to attempt to try and slash into the lower back.
That's going to be a nine and a 21 to hit.
ASHLEY: Okay, that one hits.
MATT: Okay. That's going to be eight points of
bludgeoning damage reduced to four because you're
raging, plus four points of lightning damage.
ASHLEY: Okay. Oh god, I've lost count.
MATT: Oh, I'm sorry, it has disadvantage on the
attacks; I need to roll that other attack again.
Okay, still hits because it's frightened of you.
ASHLEY: 71 minus seven...
TALIESIN: I think you're-- because the other one
missed, so I think you're at--
MATT: It's going to attempt-- all right. It's
going to attempt to move away from you.
ASHLEY: Can I try and grab it?
MATT: You can attempt to. I'll let you grapple as
a reaction, sure.
ASHLEY: I'll grapple as a reaction. Oh, fuck.
MATT: It's an athletics check for you; because
you're raging, it's at advantage.
TRAVIS: That's right.
ASHLEY: Okay.
LAURA: With advantage!
ASHLEY: 22.
MATT: Yeah, it's staying. You reach out and your
hand passes partly through it and it goes numb,
the field of sparkling energy lightly electrifying
the skin around your hand. But you manage to get
hold of something-- it's not solid matter, but
something. As it tries to move away, you keep it
there, barred in place. That ends its turn; it's
your go.
ASHLEY: All right, I'm going to take out my sword
and I'm going to attack it.
MATT: Go for it, you've got two attacks.
ASHLEY: Okay that's-- okay. Oh wow, okay.
MATT: Are you doing this reckless or not?
ASHLEY: Oh, shit! Sorry. No, I'll take the first
roll. Sorry. I'm forgetting everything. No, I'm
not doing reckless. It was 21.
MATT: 21 hits.
ASHLEY: Yeah, okay, so I'll take out my sword and
I'll attack.
MATT: Go for it. Describe to me your attack. As
you're holding it with one hand and pulling the
blade out...
ASHLEY: I say: You're not going anywhere. I'll
attack.
LAURA: What is she doing? What is Yasha doing?
MATT: You're watching her reaching out and
grabbing this small sphere of sparkling energy.
She grasps it, grabs her blade, and strikes
through with both hands arcing downward. Because
you do have two hands, you'd lose the grapple
because it is a two-handed weapon.
ASHLEY: Okay, that's fine.
MATT: But you also have sentinel, so if it tries
to get away, you can hit it.
TALIESIN: Oh my god!
TRAVIS: Plus your rage damage.
ASHLEY: 23.
SAM: That was plus the seven?
ASHLEY: Plus the seven? No. 30.
MATT: Plus the seven once per round. 30 points of
damage.
SAM: Yeah! First attack, second attack!
ASHLEY: Jeez Louise.
SAM: Don't you get two attacks?
MATT: You have two attacks every turn. I know it's
been a while.
ASHLEY: Yeah, I'm sorry!
TRAVIS: 2d6 on the second one.
ASHLEY: 2d6 on the second one, okay.
MATT: I know you forgot your sheet.
ASHLEY: Yes, I'm sorry. Okay, 12.
MATT: 12 does not hit.
ASHLEY: Oh, no, I'm sorry, oh my god. I have to
roll again. I'm sorry. I'm so nervous! I'm sorry.
That does not hit.
MATT: What was that?
ASHLEY: It was a two plus--
MATT: No, I'm afraid that does not. This first
swing strikes through. You watch the spark flash
with energy for a second. The second swing goes
wide. It moves around, zigzagging as it curls
around her. You want to do anything, or just
watching?
LAURA: No, I want to run forward.
MATT: Okay, so you rush over in the direction of
where she is and this entity.
LAURA: Yasha! Do you need help?
ASHLEY: No!
LAURA: Okay!
ASHLEY: But if you want to--
LAURA: No!
MATT: Back to its turn. Right there in front of
you, it's going to attempt to use Anger of the
Tempest. It pulls back from you-- it's no longer
frightened of you. It goes from its defensive
position to leaning in towards you. It looks up at
the sky, and as a moment there's this slight smell
of burnt hair that catches your nose before a bolt
of lightning arcs from the sky and slams into you.
I need you to make a dexterity saving throw. You
do have advantage on this.
ASHLEY: Yes, I have advantage on, okay. That's
15.
MATT: 15 does not make it.
LAURA and ASHLEY: Oh no!
TRAVIS: Oh, that's a lot.
ASHLEY: Oh god, that's a lot.
MATT: You take 23 points of lightning damage, and
as the bolt hits you, your whole upper torso goes
numb. Your fingers aren't responding, and you drop
your sword to the ground. The creature bends down
and picks it up, and holds it up, looking right at
you. Doesn't move. Your turn.
SAM: It has to move. Isn't it frightened?
MATT: Not anymore. And frightened doesn't force
you to move; you just can't get closer.
SAM: Oh, shit.
MATT: It's your turn.
LAURA: That looked like it hurt. Do you want to be
healed?
ASHLEY: Maybe? A little lower than I thought I
would be. Can I try to grapple again and try to
get my sword back?
MATT: You can use an attack to try and disarm it,
if you'd like.
ASHLEY: Okay, I'd like to try and disarm.
MATT: Okay, make another athletics check. You have
advantage on it, because you're raging.
ASHLEY: 21.
MATT: No. It had a plus three and rolled a 13, so
16.
LAURA: Oh, it didn't succeed.
ASHLEY: I was like, "How?!"
MATT: As it pulls back, attempting to use
Magician's Judge against you, you reach forward
and grab it and, for a moment, you're both
struggling back and forth. You manage to rip it
from its hand, its fingers actually evaporating as
you rip it from its form, and then reform where
they were previously. The energy's still arcing
around it, and it moves around to almost try and
move to your flank, but you shift around to face
it. You have your other attack, if you'd like.
ASHLEY: Yes. Okay. Oh no. (sighs) Forgot to
reckless. Can you call out reckless? I'm
forgetting everything!
TRAVIS: Beforehand, yeah.
ASHLEY: You have to call it out beforehand,
sorry.
MATT: You call it at the beginning of your turn.
ASHLEY: 11.
MATT: 11 does not hit. Goes wide. Unfortunately
your body's still numb from the impact of the
lightning bolt. You reel from it angrily. That
finishes your turn?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
LAURA: Can I heal her?
MATT: Do you want to roll to get involved? Roll
initiative.
LAURA: I just want to heal her. Oh, I rolled
really low. Six.
MATT: Six? Yasha, your initiative was?
TRAVIS: Ten.
ASHLEY: Yeah, ten.
MATT: All right. Jester, you can go. I'll let you
in.
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to run up and go: Keep
going! You're doing great! I'm going to touch her
arm and cast level three Cure Wounds.
MATT: Go for it.
LAURA: 20 points of healing.
ASHLEY: Oh shit, okay. I'll take it.
MATT: As Jester touches you and the healing goes
through, the entity before you, its eyes flare
with intense energy, glaring right at Jester, and
it swells to twice its size with her presence arriving.
TRAVIS: Jester, get the hell out of there!
LAURA: I didn't know! I was trying to help! Did I
see that happen, or did it just look like a ball to me?
MATT: You watch this thing all of a sudden get
brighter and more intense. You don't know what
that means. Top of the round, its turn. It's going
to take two more strikes at you. Let me see if it
gets its lightning back.
SAM: Lightning back?
MATT: Nope. All right. It's going to make two more
strikes at you, Yasha.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: Ooh. That's going to be a 20 and a 21.
ASHLEY: Yeah, both hit.
MATT: First one comes at you with ten points of
bludgeoning damage, reduced to five, and five
points of lightning damage, so ten total. The
other strike, 11 points of bludgeoning damage
reduced to five, and then three points of
lightning damage.
ASHLEY: Thanks. No, I would have been under. Okay,
my turn.
MATT: It appears to be growing in size.
LAURA: Shit.
ASHLEY: Fuck. Shit!
MATT: It's your turn, Yasha.
ASHLEY: Okay. I'm going to attack again.
Reckless.
MATT: How are you attacking with it? What are you
doing to attack? It's whipping around you.
TRAVIS: It hit you anyway, you might as well do
it, because you'll get reckless back.
ASHLEY: I'm going to try to see if there's a vital
that I can get to anywhere. How much bigger than
me is he?
MATT: Right now he's considered a large creature,
so he's about five feet taller than you. You see
only maybe a three-foot sphere, glowing in its
face, but it's larger than the one foot it once was.
ASHLEY: Okay, I'm going to try to go for the big
artery in the--
MATT: All right, you swing, coming down towards
where the leg is.
ASHLEY: Okay.
SAM: Reckless?
ASHLEY: I did reckless, yeah. 18.
MATT: 18 hits. Roll damage.
ASHLEY: Three? Oh, not as good. (counting) Plus
seven, still? Or that was a one-time?
MATT: No, every turn you do it once, plus seven.
ASHLEY: Okay. I'm sorry this is taking so long.
19.
MATT: 19 points of damage on the first strike.
Carves through the center of its leg area, you
watch as energy dissipates. The leg goes (poof)
and vanishes. Now it's hovering lightly with the
other leg below it. You see energy sparking around
where the leg's reforming.
ASHLEY: (groans) Okay.
MATT: What are you doing with your second attack?
ASHLEY: Yeah. Since I have reckless, I can still
continue to do it?
MATT: Reckless for all your attacks this round,
yeah.
ASHLEY: I'm sorry, guys. Okay, 19.
MATT: 19 hits. Roll damage a second time.
ASHLEY: Fuck. Ten.
MATT: Ten points of damage. You strike it again
with the blade. It seems to shrug it off. It seems
to be hardier than it was when you started this
fight.
LAURA: Sorry.
ASHLEY: Fuck.
MATT: Anything else you do on your turn?
TRAVIS: Do you have any bonus actions?
LAURA: Have you been adding your seven points of
damage, necrotic?
ASHLEY: I only get it once, I don't get the
necrotic damage also on the second.
TRAVIS: Both strikes.
ASHLEY: Both strikes? Okay.
MATT: What, the necrotic damage?
TRAVIS: For divine fury.
MATT: Divine fury you get once per turn.
TRAVIS: Yeah, but the sword has necrotic, right?
Or your shroud?
MATT: The necrotic damage from your shroud also
happens once per turn.
TRAVIS: Oh, sorry. Yeah, just once.
ASHLEY: Okay. Sounds good. Oh, fuck, I don't know
what to do! I feel like I have to fight this thing
on my own.
TRAVIS: Do you have a bonus action?
MATT: You have a bonus action, you haven't done
anything.
TRAVIS: Features and traits.
ASHLEY: What?
TRAVIS: Check your features and traits.
SAM: D&D Beyond!
TRAVIS: It's all pretty awesome.
MATT: Is that your turn?
ASHLEY: Yeah, that's my turn.
MATT: Jester, you're up.
LAURA: I mean, should I do anything?
MATT: What are you doing, Jester?
LAURA: I mean, I guess I'm going to back away from
it, since I made it worse.
MATT: Okay. How far do you back away?
LAURA: Ten feet.
MATT: Okay, you back away ten feet.
LAURA: Sorry! Didn't mean to join anything and
didn't know what's going on here. Looks pretty crazy.
MATT: As Jester backs away, top of the round, it's
now the entity's turn. First let's see if it gets
its-- it gets its lightning back. It's going to
first attempt to move away from you. It's going to
hover away and actually begin to rise up in the
air. You do get an attack of opportunity towards it.
LAURA: Sentinel!
MATT: It is not reckless, though, because it's
only on your turn.
ASHLEY: 13.
MATT: 13 misses. The swing goes wide and it hovers
15 feet up, near the mast where the lower sail is.
It hovers up in this space and looks up in the air
once more as its electrified wings unfurl and its
arm goes up as it stares down at you. You see
these large blue sparks where its eyes would be.
As it pulls its arm down, the bolt strikes down
and slams into you once more. Make another
dexterity saving throw with advantage.
ASHLEY: Okay. 20 total.
MATT: That succeeds. Okay, and that's a good
thing. You take 13 points of lightning damage and
you do not drop your weapon. You shrug off the
numbness from the impact, but it is 15 feet above you.
ASHLEY: Fuck.
MATT: Which is out of your melee range. It's up
near the sail on the mast. It's your turn.
ASHLEY: I call out to the Stormlord. What do you
want me to do?!
MATT: Do you wait for a response?
ASHLEY: Yes.
MATT: No response. Just the sound of thunder and
lightning rolling.
ASHLEY: Okay. I move closer to it.
MATT: How do you move closer to it?
ASHLEY: Is it directly above me?
MATT: It's above and back, up by the mast and the
sail. About 15 feet above you.
ASHLEY: (sighs) This is so stressful when it's
about you!
LAURA: Can you fly?
MATT: Not with the wings, no.
ASHLEY: No. I wish. Yeah, I'm going to try to
climb up.
MATT: Okay. I mean, they're designed for climbing.
So you go ahead, and as it's up in the air, you
rush over to the mast. Climbing your way up, you
get to the edge and there is, where the sail is in
the side, you're holding onto it off the point,
you manage to get within melee range of it. You
used your action to call out to the Stormlord and
waiting for the response, but you're now adjacent
to it.
ASHLEY: Okay. So I'll just keep my sword at the
ready.
MATT: Okay. Jester? You move further away, get
closer, re-enter, what are you doing?
LAURA: Yasha, what do you want me to do?
ASHLEY: I don't know. Just stay safe.
LAURA: Ah! I back up ten more feet.
MATT: Okay, ten more feet. Next round. You watch
its physical size reduce. It shrinks back down to
its original form, matching yours one-to-one. As
it floats there, its electrical wings not flapping
but arced, held aloft at each of its sides. On its
turn it does not get its lightning back. It's
going to attempt to strike at you twice. As it
rushes you towards the mast, trying to knock you
off, the first one's going to be a shove attack to
try and knock you off the mast. That's a natural
one. No. It goes to shove towards you and you just
pull in, and it zips past. At that point it comes
back around to try and claw at you with its other
hand. That's going to be a 20 to hit.
ASHLEY: That hits.
MATT: That is five points of bludgeoning damage.
It would be ten, but it's reduced to five. Then
four points of lightning damage. It's going to
attempt to move up further away from you, leaning
further up and away from the masthead. Make
another attack of opportunity, if you'd like.
(background music, thunder)
ASHLEY: Okay. Wait, still? Just one? Well, the
first one was good. 21 again.
MATT: 21 hits. Roll damage. And because of your
sentinel feat, you prevent it from moving.
TRAVIS: Yes, you drop their speed to zero!
MARISHA: Sentinel, bitches!
ASHLEY: Ten.
MATT: Ten points of damage. As you arc past with
your blade and strike at it, attempting to move
away, its midsection separates, and the lower legs
fizzle out and no longer exist. Suddenly, its
lower part of its torso flickers and then grows
two new legs made of pure electrical energy. As
the wind's blowing by, your hair being thrown past
your shoulders, the rain beating down on your face
as you're holding onto the side of the mast,
leaning your arm in and then striking with your
two-handed sword best you can, it can't seem to
find its way beyond your reach. Now it's your turn.
ASHLEY: Okay. I'm going to try to take my blade
and put it through its torso.
MATT: Okay. I'm going to say, because of the
rain-- didn't do it last round, but as you're now
up in this area holding on while also striking it,
you have disadvantage on the attacks because it is
a two-handed weapon.
TRAVIS: But if you make it reckless, it's a
straight roll.
ASHLEY: Oh yeah, reckless.
MATT: All right.
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay. That's...18.
MATT: 18 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
LAURA: Oh, that's good!
ASHLEY: (counting) 19-- oh, I'm sorry. 25.
MATT: 25 points of damage to it. As it arcs past,
one of the wings gets shaved off and falls and
sputters and turns to particle sparks before
vanishing into the storm. The wing begins to
flicker to regrow itself. You have your second
attack.
ASHLEY: Oh, that's right. Okay. Still reckless.
MATT: Well, reckless is preventing the
disadvantage.
ASHLEY: Oh, shit, okay. That doesn't hit.
MATT: What'd you roll?
ASHLEY: A three plus-- nine.
MATT: No. This one, unfortunately, goes wide with
the second strike as your arm's looped through the
mast, trying to hold on. This time, the other wing
manages to flicker in and it just ducks out of the
way. Jester, staying out or coming in?
LAURA: Staying out of it!
MATT: All right. Back to the top of the round. The
creature now-- you see the storm growing heavier
and heavier around, the rain now is coming in
heavy sheets across the deck. The crew's yelling
off; you hear the shouting of the crewmen trying
to keep the sails from tearing. You hear Fjord
shouting orders to them from behind, but the words
aren't reaching you. It's just noise lost in the
wind and the sound of the storm around you. It's
going to attempt-- we'll see.
LAURA: You can do it, Yasha!
MATT: It does get its lightning strike back.
ASHLEY: (whispering) Fuck.
MATT: As you're up there holding the mast, knowing
it's coming, as the creature puts its hands up,
the bolt strikes down once more, slamming to you
and the mast. I need you to make another dexterity
saving throw.
MARISHA: No, we just got that repaired.
TALIESIN and TRAVIS: Advantage.
ASHLEY: 11.
(dice rolling)
TRAVIS: Come on!
MATT: Wasn't a great roll, so you're lucky on
that. That's 13 points of lightning damage.
LAURA: Oh my god.
ASHLEY: (singing) I'm still standing.
ALL: (singing) Yeah, yeah, yeah.
MATT: But you drop your sword.
ALL: (groaning)
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: Which falls onto the ground. That's its
turn. What are you doing, Yasha?
ASHLEY: Oh my god! Okay, okay, okay.
MARISHA: Merry Christmas.
TRAVIS: How far away is it from you on that mast?
ASHLEY: Yeah. How far-- yeah.
MATT: It's five feet from you. It hasn't pulled
away. You've prevented it from leaving, but it did
manage to knock the weapon out of your hands.
ASHLEY: Is there anything in the torso?
MATT: The energy that it seems to create has this
field of electricity. You do see the bright points
where its eyes are that are these two beacons of
intense electrical energy and the faint heart-like
glow that emanates from the center of its torso.
The full thing is made of energy from different
intensity levels that almost give variations to
colors of blue and white.
ASHLEY: Okay. I want to try to grab it again. Grab
it from the inside and try to pull it off of the mast.
MATT: Make an athletics check. You do not have
disadvantage on this. You have advantage because
of your--
ASHLEY: I have advantage?
MATT: Because you're raging still.
ASHLEY: Okay, that's right. Both the same. 12.
MATT: Okay. 12? That's a 16. You try and reach out
for it and it just manages to duck out of the way.
You have a second attack. Are you doing another
grapple or are you--?
ASHLEY: I'm going to try to do another grapple.
MATT: Go for it. With advantage, because you're
raging.
ASHLEY: 22.
MATT: Yeah, it does not succeed on that. As it
ducks past the one, you reach out, getting to the
limits of your arm reach from the edge of the
mast. As you do, your hand plunges into its chest.
ASHLEY: Can I pull it off of the mast?
MATT: Next turn, if you can keep it up. As you're
holding it there and it's grappled, its strength
is zero. Your hand is plunged about two or three
inches into the energy field that is its torso.
You can feel your fingers vibrating with energy,
and it hurts. It hurts, but you grit your teeth.
Glaring past, you can hear the waves crashing
around you. The ship itself is rocking with heavy
momentum, but you're focused on the moment. On its
turn, it's going to attempt to attack you. That is
a natural one. You are lucky, but the second one
is a 13 again. Wait, wait. Yeah, 13. Plus six. Shit!
LAURA: Oh my god.
TRAVIS: One below your AC!
MATT: Man, okay. Oh, let's see. It does not get
its lightning back. That would have been good to
roll beforehand.
ASHLEY: Okay, my turn? I want to keep holding, and
I want to squeeze even harder whatever it is that
I'm holding onto, and try to yank down and take us
off the--
MATT: Make a strength check.
SAM: The mast.
ASHLEY: The mast. Do I roll again?
TRAVIS: Strength has advantage.
ASHLEY: Fuck, I'm sorry!
MATT: With the raging. It's okay.
ASHLEY: 16.
MATT: You begin to pull, and it's giving. As
you're yanking, its wings are flickering and
sputtering. Its arms are reaching up to grab
yours, and its eyes that have been intensely
burrowed toward you begin to go wide.
ASHLEY: Okay, I'm going to keep trying to pull
whatever that is.
MATT: Make another strength check with advantage.
ASHLEY: 17.
MATT: (crackling, pop) As you pull it from the
chest, the body flickers out, and you're falling,
the momentum pulling you off of the mast. You
plummet 15 feet, slamming into the deck.
LAURA: As I see her falling, I run forward to try
to cast Cure Wounds right as she--
MATT: You take five points of bludgeoning damage
from the impact, reduced to two because of the
rage. You crack down onto the hard wood of the
deck.
ASHLEY: I am at one hit point.
MATT: No fucking way!
ASHLEY: Yes fucking way.
MATT: That's two episodes in a row.
ASHLEY: I'm just laying there, and I'm holding--
LAURA: I look down at her. Are you okay?
ASHLEY: I don't know.
LAURA: What did you do?
ASHLEY: I don't know. Am I still holding it?
MATT: Your fingers are buzzing. You look, and
there's nothing there.
ASHLEY: Did you see that thing?
LAURA: I saw a ball of light. I saw you fall off
the mast.
ASHLEY: You didn't see any creature or anything?
LAURA: It was a big ball of lightning stuff. Your
sword fell down. Here.
ASHLEY: I was fighting something. It was a
creature.
LAURA: What did it look like? Cure Wounds.
ASHLEY: It was winged, and it had red eyes. It
looked like it was a ball of lightning.
LAURA: What do you think it meant?
ASHLEY: I don't know. I was standing in front of
the ship, and I had a vision of home. Then I woke
up, and then the lightning struck. When it came
down, it was the creature.
LAURA: It only wanted to fight you.
ASHLEY: I guess, if you didn't even see it. I
grabbed something out of it. I guess it was its
heart. Now it's gone.
LAURA: Yasha, this is really important.
ASHLEY: Okay. Well, maybe I need to think on this
a little bit more.
LAURA: We should talk to Caduceus.
ASHLEY: Yeah?
LAURA: Mm-hmm. He has really good insight. Plus,
he makes good tea. It will make you feel better.
TRAVIS: Jester, what's going on down there?
LAURA: Yasha fought a ball of lightning, but
everything's okay! She's good. We're going to get
some tea, though.
ASHLEY: I'm okay!
LAURA: The mast looks like it maybe got burned a
little again.
TRAVIS: Maybe see to the repairs first before you
get your fucking tea.
LAURA: Why don't you stop being a dick?! I crawl
up and cast Mending on the sail. By the way,
you're healed 14 points.
MATT: Because the lightning mostly impacted Yasha,
the damage was minimal to the mast, thankfully. If
she had succeeded on her save... Oh wait, no. You
succeeded the last save.
SAM: She did succeed.
MATT: The mast is a little damaged, but with
immediate Mending, I'll say you can undo it a
little bit.
LAURA: Plus, I'm one of the carpenters. I've got
extra skills.
ASHLEY: I'm going to go talk to Caduceus.
MATT: Okay, as you continue to help keep this ship
going through the middle of this storm, you make
your way below deck and find Caduceus in his
chamber.
TALIESIN: (snoring)
ASHLEY: Hey, Caduceus.
TALIESIN: (grunting awake)
ASHLEY: Hey.
TALIESIN: (sniffing) Did you get hit by
lightning?
ASHLEY: Yes.
TALIESIN: Wow. Hold on. Oh man.
ASHLEY: Sorry. Burning hair is not a good smell.
TALIESIN: No, that's nice. It's fresh. Hold on.
Let's do something about that. I'm going to do
another quick Cure Wounds at a ridiculous level.
Let's do it at third. Let's give you another 3d8
plus five to get that going. What happened?
ASHLEY: Well, I was-- oh, that would've been
nice.
TALIESIN: 21.
ASHLEY: Okay. I was at the bow of the boat, and I
was trying to connect with the Stormlord. I don't
know. I ended up getting a vision.
TALIESIN: You got a sign?
ASHLEY: I think I did.
TALIESIN: I mean, (sniffs). Yeah, that's a sign.
You got hit. You're pretty fried.
ASHLEY: I'm pretty fried. I fought something,
though. It was lightning that came down and then
turned into a creature.
TALIESIN: I don't know how to make this sound
normal. Did it know you? Did it feel like it was
there for you?
ASHLEY: Yes.
TALIESIN: Well, somebody's paying attention.
Congratulations. You probably need some food.
Where's your sword?
ASHLEY: It's here.
TALIESIN: That's amazing. Well, now that you seem
to have the Stormlord's attention, now what?
ASHLEY: I think I need to keep trying to find him.
I guess he's found me.
TALIESIN: Now what?
ASHLEY: That's what I was going to ask you. I'm
going to go back upstairs.
TALIESIN: I'll go to the kitchen and put the
kettle on. I think sometimes you're running toward
something so fast that you don't remember why you
were running in the first place. I've had some
moments like that with these people a couple
times, where I felt distant from what's important.
Recently, I've been thinking about this river in
the northern forest. It's not a big river. You
watch the river, and every year it's a little
different. We used to make little leaf boats and
put them down and watch them, and every year it
was a different path, but it's all going to end up
in the ocean eventually. I think that you're going
to be ending up in your destination real soon. I
think we're barreling toward it. Congratulations.
I'm going to go make tea. (sighs) And I go make tea.
ASHLEY: I go back upstairs.
MATT: Since it was your vision, if you wish to
look over the words that were told to you, keep
that for you.
SAM: (whispering) Clues.
LAURA: Clues and clues!
TALIESIN: Zoinks.
LAURA: Clues and clues and beans and beans.
SAM: Look at the first letter of every word, and
then take those and rearrange them.
TALIESIN: Let's get some lemon juice and a
candle.
ASHLEY: I go back upstairs.
MATT: To the dock-- To the deck?
ASHLEY: Mm-hmm.
MATT: Okay.
ASHLEY: I just want to sit outside still.
MATT: Okay. You make your way back up.
LAURA: Is it peaceful?
MATT: It's still raining, but the storm's ferocity
seems to have slowly diminished. It's still a storm.
TRAVIS: Less steady!
MATT: But you seem to have come through the bulk
of its intensity and danger, and, from your
experience, knowing you're probably starting to
come out the other end. It'll be a few more hours
of fording this, but you're getting pretty
exhausted.
TRAVIS: I may send Orly or someone else below
decks to go wake up Beau.
MATT: Okay. Orly stays, but sends Marius to go
ahead and wake Beau, comes back up, and she's in
his wake.
MARISHA: 'Sup?
TRAVIS: Yeah, we're through the worst of it.
Listen, if, for some reason, Yasha comes back up
and starts swinging at a bunch of balls of light
on the front of the ship, just don't get involved.
I'm going to sleep.
MARISHA: What?
TRAVIS: (mumbling) Nothing, just going
(gibberish).
MARISHA: Okay...
LAURA: (yawns) I'm so tired. Thank you, Caduceus.
TALIESIN: The ship's name makes sense, now.
LAURA: The Balleater. Oh, yeah!
TALIESIN: The eater of balls.
LAURA: And also, our captain also eats balls!
TALIESIN: Everybody. Now I feel better about the
whole-- It's a good name. It works out.
LIAM: (singing to the tune of "Moon River") Ball eater.
LAURA: You feeling any better, Yasha?
ASHLEY: I guess so. I'm just trying to make sense
of all this still. I feel like-- I had some
visions of home that made me very happy and sad at
the same time, but it must all mean something.
LAURA: What made you leave in the first place?
(background music)
ASHLEY: Um.
LAURA: It had to be scary, right, if that's all
you'd ever known.
ASHLEY: Yeah, I had to leave.
LAURA: Why?
ASHLEY: I did something that... I did something
that wasn't the right thing to do, according to my tribe.
LAURA: You can say what it is; (whispering) I
won't tell anyone.
ASHLEY: In my tribe, we have a matriarch of the
tribe, the Champion, and her name is the Skyspear.
LAURA: Whoa, that's a cool name.
ASHLEY: And when you become a part of the tribe,
you take a blood oath and you get a name, and I
was given the name Orphan Maker. When you become a
part of the tribe, as time goes on, you are given
a mate. But I fell in love with someone else that
was not chosen for me, and we got married privately.
LAURA: (gasps) You got married, Yasha?
ASHLEY: I did. But they found out and the
punishment for that is death, and they killed her
and I ran away, so I... I am a coward, I guess.
LAURA: Yasha, you're not a coward. You're one of
the bravest people I've ever met.
ASHLEY: Thank you, Jester. In our tribe, when you
get married, it's for life. Even if she's gone,
she'll always be mine.
LAURA: What was her name?
ASHLEY: Her name was Zuala.
LAURA: That's really beautiful.
ASHLEY: Yeah. I left and I'm sure they were coming
after me and I got into the wastes of Xhorhas, and
something happened. There's time that I cannot
account for. I was out there for months by myself,
and it seems like I woke up months later and I
looked different and I felt different. I woke up
at an altar of the Stormlord, and he saved me. For
what, yet, I don't know, but hopefully I can be a
better champion for him and fulfill whatever
purpose he has for me.
LAURA: Did he heal your heart, or are you still
sad?
ASHLEY: I don't know if my heart could ever be
healed, but I'm okay with that. I feel like if it
were put back together then that means Zuala
would be gone. I know one day I want to go back
there. I don't know where she was buried, but I
have so many flowers to bring to her. I don't know
what all this means, but I sometimes... I don't
know. I don't know.
(background music)
LAURA: I didn't know.
ASHLEY: I feel like sometimes I get nervous to get
close to people because I feel like I lose them.
And then Molly.
LAURA: And then Molly.
ASHLEY: I feel like I'm either very unlucky or
cursed, and I don't believe in luck.
LAURA: Curses and luck, they go together. If you
don't believe in luck, you can't believe in being
cursed either.
ASHLEY: That's true.
LAURA: And Molly's still with us, the same way
that your beautiful wife is.
ASHLEY: Yeah, I think so. I think so. This is very
good tea.
TALIESIN: Been saving it.
ASHLEY: What's in here?
LAURA: (gasps) You didn't put some of that stuff
in, did you?
TALIESIN: Oh, that-- no. Although, I did think
about it. No, this is from home. This is the
Cadence family, if I recall? It's very minty.
TRAVIS and LIAM: (laughing) Very minty.
MARISHA: (laughing) The Cadence family?
ASHLEY: Like it's people?
TALIESIN: I mean, technically, yeah.
ASHLEY: I'm fine with it.
LAURA: Minty people.
(background music)
ASHLEY: Well, maybe this is best kept to us.
LAURA: I won't tell anyone.
ASHLEY: I mean, I'm fine with saying it, but it's
a long story, and...
LAURA: Thank you for trusting us with that,
Yasha.
ASHLEY: Of course.
LAURA: Sometimes it helps to say things out loud.
ASHLEY: I think so. I feel like I'm trying to
learn that from you, Jester.
LAURA: Really?
ASHLEY: Yeah, you say what's on your mind--
TALIESIN: It's true.
ASHLEY: It's good.
LAURA: Yeah.
ASHLEY: I'm going to try to start doing that.
TALIESIN: To surviving.
ASHLEY: To surviving.
LAURA: To minty families!
ASHLEY: To minty families.
TALIESIN: The mintiest.
MATT: As the storm subsides slowly over the next
few hours, and one by one, you all eventually find
yourself feeling comfortable to return to your
quarters for an evening's rest, the day's travel
comes to a complete circle. The morning comes with
clear skies as the distant gray fades in the
north. Another half day's travel leads you to see
a few bodies of land on the horizon.
TRAVIS: Hey, nice job.
MARISHA: (sharply inhales) Yeah!
TRAVIS: Really?
MARISHA: I was awake the whole night.
TRAVIS: Which direction are we pointed?
MARISHA: The one we're heading in, Fjord, which is
the only way we could be heading.
TRAVIS: Which is?
MARISHA: Towards our destiny.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Orly--
MARISHA: Orly, which way are we heading?
MATT: "I reckon towards them islands." He points
over to the bodies of land on the horizon.
MARISHA: Towards the islands.
TRAVIS: Nice job.
MARISHA: Thank you.
MATT: Now, coming across the Gravid Archipelago--
and you'd know this a little bit, though you've
not actually traveled to these before-- you can
see this trio of islands are rather rocky and are
only marked with small pockets of trees and
jungle. Much of the land on these islands is
steep, volcanic peaks with sheer cliff faces
pockmarked with caves. Similar makeup as a lot of
Darktow, actually; they were both probably created
from similar volcanic activity from under the
ocean, but not very welcoming-looking islands.
With little safe land to navigate or exploit for
resources, there is very few reason for ships to
stop here. As you guys begin to make your way, you
can see the two nearest to you and the third
there. What would you like to do?
TRAVIS: Plot a course that would put us right in
the middle of all three.
MATT: "Okay." He goes ahead and continues the path
of the Balleater.
TALIESIN: We'll work on it.
MATT: Nothing quite like high fantasy.
ASHLEY: Balleater?
TRAVIS: It was the Squalleater.
MARISHA: So we just painted it--
ASHLEY: The boat is called the Balleater?
SAM and LAURA: Yes.
ASHLEY: The Balleater.
TALIESIN: Eater of balls.
MARISHA: To be fair, he's eaten some balls--
TALIESIN: And now you have as well.
ASHLEY: I've eaten some balls?
TALIESIN: You just bested a ball.
MARISHA: You busted a ball.
ASHLEY: Oh, that's true, that's true.
SAM: We've all had a couple of balls in our mouth
before.
TALIESIN: We spent six days in that Happy Fun
Ball.
LAURA: Yeah!
TALIESIN: That's a lot of balls.
MARISHA: That's true! I'm telling you, it's a
ball-themed year.
TALIESIN: This is practically a ball pit, yeah.
LIAM: Matthew Mercer's ball campaign.
MARISHA: Sorry.
MATT: This is going to go real poorly.
TRAVIS: It's not our fault!
TALIESIN: Nice lightning strike as you said that,
by the way. It was like--
TRAVIS: Real poorly. (cracking)
MATT: This can be turned off.
TALIESIN: I was enjoying it.
MATT: Fun device.
LAURA: That is awesome, yeah.
MATT: Thank you, Jeremy Crawford, for showing me
that at the Stream of Many Eyes.
LIAM: What is the plan, Captain?
TRAVIS: We're going to head for the middle of all
that.
LAURA: Do we have to go to the bottom of the ocean
again?
TRAVIS: Maybe. We're going to keep our eyes on the
islands as we proceed, but I do recall it being
under the depths.
MARISHA: You are searching for this based on a
vision?
LAURA: Also, it was in Avantika's journal, wasn't
it? You remember, Caleb.
LIAM: Exactly.
MATT: It was, yes.
SAM: Did it have an exact location or anything?
MATT: No, it just said somewhere between them.
TRAVIS: In my dream, I saw from the top down, and
I hit the water right in the middle of them and
kept going deeper and deeper.
ASHLEY: Right in the middle of these three
islands?
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
ASHLEY: Cool.
MARISHA: Fjord, there are presumably three
spheres, yeah? Right?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MARISHA: You have one. You have two, and then
Avantika. I'm checking if you think that this
could unleash Uk'otoa.
TRAVIS: Nope. Nope, nope. She put hers in the
first temple. I have two. This might be numero
dos, and then I'll keep the third.
MARISHA: Okay. What if, theoretically, playing
devil's advocate here, maybe Uk'otoa was like: I
should make four, one extra, just in case-ies.
Vandran has that one, but he's also already put it
in the temple, and this third one could unleash
him!
TRAVIS: Wait. Four spheres, three temples?
LAURA: It's possible.
SAM: Or ten spheres.
LAURA: You don't know.
SAM: You have no idea.
MARISHA: Maybe it only takes three?
TALIESIN: I'm not sure that elder gods work in
baker's dozens.
LIAM: It would be very embarrassing for the people
who designed that temple we visited.
TRAVIS: That's right, and as Caleb can attest to,
that image that we saw in the temple was three
spheres. Three chosen people underneath the
entity. I don't think they would have an influx of
spheres to deal with.
SAM: What if someone else was searching for these
powerful spheres and maybe was lying in wait at
this temple, knowing that someone would maybe come
bring one to it?
TRAVIS: Nott, you are a fantastic rogue. You
wouldn't let such an ambush befall us, would you?
SAM: I would if it were underwater because I would
not be there to prevent it.
LAURA: You're not going to come with us again?
SAM: Fuck no! Look what happened last time. There
was a crazy ghost lady!
LAURA: Yeah, and we defeated her.
SAM: No, she got away.
LAURA: Yeah, but we still defeated her.
SAM: We almost died.
LAURA: We got the orb! We also stole some shit.
SAM: Did we?
LAURA: Yeah. I got at least five gold.
TRAVIS: Those that want to come can. I will
understand if you want to sit this one out.
LIAM: We've come a long way.
TALIESIN: You're welcome to stay, although there
might be a conversation about how much of the cut
of whatever we find you get to keep.
TRAVIS: Agreed, and I couldn't guarantee your
safety up here while we're below the murky depths.
LAURA: Nott.
SAM: Yes?
LAURA: I don't want to force you to come, of
course not. You can stay up here if you want, and
I'm not going to talk about dangers, and murky
depths, and stuff like that. I will say that you
saved my life, and I don't feel as comfortable
going into a battle without you.
SAM: Fjord, you have a thing or two to learn from
Jester about talking to people and engaging them
on a personal level. She has what I would call the
expert touch. She gets people. She sees into their
hearts and souls. You are just a bastard man.
TRAVIS: I hear there is an ancient button factory
at the bottom of the waters--
SAM: Wait, Button Wonka's factory? With the
boompa-loompas?
TRAVIS: You've heard of it as well!
SAM: I have! No one's seen anyone come in or out
of that factory, and yet it makes buttons every
day! How do they do it?!
TRAVIS: The story's been lost to the ages, since
the great Calamity.
SAM: All right.
TRAVIS: You're in?
SAM: This fucker.
(laughter)
SAM: Let's find it; then we'll decide later.
TRAVIS: Fair enough. Just in case, can we keep an
eye on the islands as we're moving in for any sign
of structures, civilization?
MATT: Yeah, whoever is helming that will be able
to make either two separate perception checks or
aid one to make--
TRAVIS: I'll send the perceptive fuckers up to the
crow's nest.
TALIESIN: Yep, take a look.
MATT: Are you aiding Caduceus, or are you both
rolling?
MARISHA: It's you? Am I doing this?
TRAVIS: You're aiding Cad.
MARISHA: I'll aid you.
TALIESIN: Perception rolls?
MATT: Perception, yeah. With advantage.
TALIESIN: Perception with advantage. That's awful!
That's terrible. 14.
MATT: Okay. You keep an eye out there and spend
the next hour or so, as you guys are coming into
position, scanning the shores of each of the
islands. There's no sign of civilization. They're
mostly dangerous, jagged, rocky shores with
pebbled beaches, and bits and pieces of hints of
mangrove clusters at certain points of the shore,
and elements of the occasional bit of jungle you
can see in pockets or valleys on each island. For
the most part, you don't see any sign of civilization.
TALIESIN: Nothing so far. Mr. Caleb, I know this
is not your favorite thing to do, but we may
require the use of your friend for a little while.
LIAM: What are you going to do with the cat?
TALIESIN: Well, I was hoping that maybe the cat
would get uncomfortable in either a bird or an
octopus form and do a little reconnaissance.
LIAM: There is no bird or octopus; he is a cat. I
am out of supplies for-- he's a cat.
SAM: I got incense, by the way.
LIAM: Everything just changed. How much did you
get?
SAM: I got 50 gold worth, which was a lot.
LIAM: May I have it?
SAM: You may have all of it.
LIAM: Thank you. Where do we want to dump him in
the ocean again for a look around?
TALIESIN: We're looking for signs of civilization
on land or in the sea at the moment. What are you--?
TRAVIS: If we haven't seen anything on land, I'd
like to get in the middle and then send him below.
MARISHA: Are we in the middle yet?
MATT: I'd say about now you guys could have
reached what would be considered as close to the
center as Orly can possibly maneuver the boat.
MARISHA: No carvings in caves, holes in the stone
walls?
LIAM: I can do two things. We can send Frumpkin
into the air and--
MATT: I mean, there are caves all over the
volcanic, rocky cliffs and peaks that come out
each island. There are caverns and shelves. It was
a violently-made series of islands.
MARISHA: Did you go underwater in your vision?
TRAVIS: In my mind pictures? Yeah, I did.
TALIESIN: Your mind pictures.
LIAM: I'll sit down on the deck and start drawing
in chalk on the wood and putting my cat in the
middle of it, even though he has only been a cat
for a few days. Ten minutes later we have an octopus.
LAURA: Wait, so if I was petting Frumpkin when you
were doing that, would he slowly lose his fur and
grow tentacles, or would it be a poof?
LIAM: We'll try that sometime, okay?
LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: Are you hoping for that Ladyhawke moment
where you have a furry octopus?
TRAVIS: Yeah!
ASHLEY: A furry octopus.
TALIESIN: One pat of just (growling noise).
MATT: There is a moment of transition. It's a
little awkward.
TALIESIN: (yowling, then slurping)
MATT: (sploosh) Into the ocean!
TALIESIN: There you go, bud.
MATT: (swishing) Below, disappearing into the
depths.
MARISHA: Sorry. Go, Frumpkin, go!
MATT: Go ahead and make a perception check for
Frumpkin.
SAM and LAURA: Come on, Frumpkin.
LIAM: Not good.
LAURA: Ugh! It's never good!
LIAM: Eight.
MATT: From the upper tier of the water, Frumpkin
sees-- the water here is pretty clear.
MARISHA: He made it worse. The water here is
pretty clear.
MATT: Frumpkin is a bit distracted by the heavy
schools of fish that seem to be glittering beneath
the surface and catching a little bit of the light
that's making its way through the waves and
causing this array of sparkles roughly 30, 40, 50
feet below the surface.
LIAM: I see a whole lot of ocean.
MATT: Continues deeper, deeper. Make another
perception check.
ASHLEY: Come on, Frumpkin.
LIAM: 14.
MATT: Okay. First thing Frumpkin notices is the
ocean here is not as deep as the Diver's Grave. It
goes down maybe 300 feet. It's still deep, but
it's a third of the depth you ended up having to
go down.
LIAM: I'm going to send him in slowly larger
circles over time.
MATT: Frumpkin does see a shape amongst the
clusters of seaweed and other bits of life that
exist down there in natural ocean life. You can
see chunks of ocean rock and volcanic rock, things
that may have been lobbed from ancient volcanic
detonations, and a tower; a sub-ocean tower that's
leaning at an angle. You can see bits of broken
rock based around it, and the seaweed is cluttered
up around the base of it.
LIAM: Now are we talking architecture or natural?
MATT: Architecture, constructed.
LIAM: I relay this.
MATT: The top of it is somewhat jagged; it has
sustained some erosion or damage towards its top,
and it leads down inside. You can see shelves or
bits where there may have been stairs or levels,
but most of that has fallen inward, and from
Frumpkin's exterior perspective, mostly hollow and
disappearing into darkness the further in. With a
14, Frumpkin also notices a little bit of
movement. Towards the very tops of the seaweed,
there are humanoid bodies that are tangled in the
seaweed a bit that appear to be floating there,
and then one of them twitches and goes (moaning).
SAM and LAURA: Oh, no.
MARISHA: Why does this keep happening?
LIAM: There's more dead things down below.
TALIESIN: Oh, man.
LAURA: Oh, no!
SAM: Nopey nope!
TRAVIS: Well, Caduceus, you're definitely coming.
TALIESIN: Well, we may need a nap before we go
down there.
TRAVIS: All right.
LAURA: We did; we got a long rest.
MARISHA: We just woke up.
TALIESIN: But, since the Yasha thing?
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: Yeah, we still got a long rest.
TALIESIN: Oh, in that case, I'm going to manage my
spells then.
MARISHA: Jagged tower seem familiar?
TRAVIS: Yes.
MARISHA: Okay.
TRAVIS: One thing we should do: can I get you guys
to scurry up to the crow's nest one more time and
give a gander for any ships?
MARISHA: Me and Caduceus again?
TRAVIS: Yeah. Look really carefully: coves,
inlets, anything that might look like it might be hiding.
MARISHA: Want to do separate rolls this time?
TALIESIN: Yeah, let's do it separately.
MARISHA: Fucking horrible!
TALIESIN: Oh my god!
TRAVIS: Totally fine! We're safe!
MARISHA: Eight.
TALIESIN: Ten.
MATT: Seems pretty clear.
LAURA: Ugh!
TALIESIN: Seems pretty clear.
LIAM: That tower's familiar to you, huh?
TRAVIS: No. It just seems like the obvious
entrance.
LIAM: So you misspoke?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
(background music)
LIAM: Okay.
TRAVIS: Sorry, my impulsiveness was starting to
catch up again. I just want to be honest. (sighs)
Doesn't seem like there's a trap, Nott, right? We
seem to be by ourselves, at least up here.
SAM: Yeah. Up here. Where there's no water. We're
totally fine. Down there, there's dead bodies on seaweed.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Yeah, but I mean, what's a couple of dead
bodies on seaweed to people like us? No bigs, right?
ASHLEY: Wait, they're already dead? They're
animated dead.
MARISHA: They were like (menacing noises).
MATT: Fumpkin didn't get a great look at them. It
was uncertain one or the other, but they appear to
be humanoid and wrapped in seaweed, and then--
LIAM: One of them seemed to spasm.
MATT: One of them seemed to twitch and move for a
second before going back to rest.
TRAVIS: About what time of the day is it right
now?
MATT: At this point, it's early afternoon. Maybe
one or two hours after noon.
TRAVIS: Let's get this thing done.
MARISHA: Do you have the ability to let us breathe
under there?
TRAVIS: I do.
SAM: Yasha, how are you feeling?
TRAVIS: Up for another scrap?
ASHLEY: I love swimming. I like scrapping. So this
is a combo of the two of them, you know? I'm in.
TRAVIS: All right. I'll look at the group and I
will cast Underwater Breathing on everyone for 24 hours.
LAURA: Oh gosh.
MATT: A familiar lightness in the lungs seems to
take root inside. The air tastes a little bit
different once the incantation is complete. You
feel the familiar point of anxiety build in your
chest since last time you dove.
MARISHA: It's cold already. (groaning)
SAM: I'm going to go find the other bottle of
mead. Drink until I am more than intoxicated--
MARISHA: (yelling) That was for the crew!
SAM: Fuck them!
MARISHA: What?! Nott!
SAM: I need this right now.
MARISHA: Your flask is bottomless!
SAM: I'm kind of sick of it; it's the same booze
over and over again. I'm sorry-- I love you baby,
I love you, but it's getting to be a little bit--
ugh. It's like if you eat Rice Krispies every day--
TALIESIN: Maybe if you washed it every now and
then it would have a slightly different--
MARISHA: Do we see her go and sneak the mead?
MATT: You see her leave for a bit, and then come
back with an empty bottle of mead.
SAM: (slurring) Let's go swimming.
TRAVIS: What's the distance from the middle of
this archipelago to the nearest outer island?
MATT: About a quarter mile. A quarter mile to a
mile to the nearest one. Actually, it's probably a
little more than that, a few miles.
TRAVIS: I'll go to Orly and say: While we're
underneath, if you see another ship enter, or
danger present itself, make for land and we'll
find you.
MATT: "Understood." Yeah, it's about a mile to the
shore, looking at the map there.
TALIESIN: I'll leave my tea kettle on board.
Should be fine, we'll find them.
TRAVIS: You ready?
SAM: Before we go, I'm going to pull Caleb aside.
TALIESIN: We're all going to stare at you while
you do this.
SAM: Hey, while we're down there, if Fjord tries
to be, like, bad, can you restrain him? Like if
something overcomes him with evil, can you fuck
him up?
LIAM: Most likely, yeah.
SAM: I would be ready to. I feel like 50-50 he's
turning evil on us.
LIAM: Will you stay close to me down there,
please?
SAM: Of course I will, I'm not going to leave you.
You're puny and weak! I'm sorry.
(laughter)
SAM: I meant physically. Physically, you're puny
and weak. Intellectually, you're a rock star,
you're amazing. You know I respect you!
LIAM: Your first statement was accurate.
SAM: By the way, what did we get? The books? Did
we get any good spells?
LIAM: Yeah.
SAM: Tell me!
LIAM: There was a jar full of-- they're like boba.
It's food.
SAM: Tapioca, yeah.
LIAM: It lasts a long time.
SAM: It's just food?
LIAM: Yeah.
SAM: Okay. Any sort of--?
LIAM: The ink is good; it will help me in my
studies.
SAM: And the books, any powerful spells? Anything
that can--?
LIAM: One of the books was about debate. One was a
spell book.
SAM: And?
LIAM: And there's useful things in it.
SAM: Reality shifting things?
LIAM: A little, yeah.
SAM: Excellent. I give him a big kiss on his
cheek, and it's real smelly. Me, not him.
MATT: Well...
SAM: Both.
TALIESIN: The book was about debate and then you
were going to argue about--
LIAM: I pull her even a little further away and
turn our backs to the group and--
LAURA: We're all watching you.
LIAM: That's fine. I've been getting a little
wrapped up in this team; we're working as a team,
and I've forgotten you and me. I've forgotten.
SAM: Well, don't! We're in this together.
LIAM: Yeah.
SAM: Don't forget me. I won't forget you.
LIAM: Stay close.
SAM: Always. All right, fuckers, let's go!
TRAVIS: When we get under, make sure to take a
breath really quick; you'll sink faster.
SAM: Oh, yeah.
MARISHA: If Uk'otoa decides to show up--
TRAVIS: He won't.
LAURA: But if he does--
MARISHA: What's the plan?
TRAVIS: He won't.
MARISHA: (doubtfully) Okay.
LIAM: Caleb is standing behind Beauregard and
sliding his octopus onto his head.
MARISHA: Still cool.
LAURA: Looking good.
TALIESIN: It's a look.
MARISHA: All right.
TRAVIS: (heavy footsteps, splash)
TALIESIN: No fear.
MARISHA: SEALs dive!
MATT: One by one, you all make your way into the
ocean. (splashing) The water is cold, but you
adjust and begin to find your way down. Are we
swimming stealthily, or are we brazenly heading
towards this temple?
LIAM: Always stealthily.
LAURA: Stealth.
MATT: All right, so we're stealth missioning in. I
need everybody to go ahead and make a stealth
check, please.
LAURA: Natural 20! Straight up, light up.
LIAM: Is anybody putting some juice on this? No?
Straight roll?
TALIESIN: No, straight roll.
LAURA: Oh, I'll give you a Blessing of the
Trickster.
LIAM: Thanks. That's plus ten?
TRAVIS: 13.
LAURA: That's advantage.
LIAM: Advantage.
MARISHA: 12.
LIAM: Oh, they're both good. Now even better. 20.
SAM: 23.
LAURA: Natural 20.
TALIESIN: Six!
ASHLEY: 14.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: Super middle of the road.
MATT: You're moving at a slower speed, swimming
below, trying to be as stealthy as you can. Making
your way further down, the filtering light grows
dimmer and dimmer--
LAURA: Oh, I left the weasel on the ship again. I
didn't bring him with me.
MATT: There's a certain point where I assume
you're not trying to kill your weasel.
LAURA: Yeah, I'm not going to kill my weasel.
MATT: I fucked with you for a few weeks when you
were new to pet ownership, but then after a few
close calls, I figured-- The deeper it goes, the
harder it is to see, the colder it is-- a familiar sensation.
MARISHA: Is it as dark as it was before? Equally?
TRAVIS: It's clear water.
MATT: It's clear water, so the light does carry
further, and you guys aren't going as deep. You do
manage to make out, as you get further and further
down, the general shape of the tower within sight.
It is comparatively murky because of the lack of
light, but you can see the shape. You can also,
based on the warning that Caleb had given, see
some of the figures. You see about five of them,
all tangled or wrapped in threads of this seaweed.
Regular seaweed, not the strange crimson type that
you came across in the Diver's Grave.
TALIESIN: I'm going to do a little ping of Eyes of
the Grave, just to make sure there's no more of
them in this other than the ones we can see.
MATT: What's the range on that?
TALIESIN: 60 feet.
MATT: All right. You're going to have to get
pretty close to try it.
TALIESIN: I know that we're heading-- once I feel
like, or maybe I should hit it again--
MATT: Okay, as you swim down to get within range
to use your Eyes of the Grave, thankfully, the
nearest creature doesn't seem to notice your
approach. It is not undead. Make a perception check.
TALIESIN: Come on. Ah, better. 20.
MATT: Actually, roll at disadvantage because you
don't have darkvision, unfortunately, and you're
low enough now where the light is limited.
TALIESIN: 16.
MATT: 16's still okay. Now that you have a better
look at it, at a closer perspective, the humanoid
creature-- no clothing. It is thin. The limbs are
a little stretched, but there are tiny fins at the
edge of the arms. Along the sides of the head,
there are gills. It has a strange glance, looking
around like a sentry, almost. It's not undead. It
appears to be more of a fish person.
TRAVIS: Does it look like it has four appendages?
MATT: It has four appendages. It has arms and
legs.
TALIESIN: Yeah. I would have gotten an undead ping
from any of them. I didn't get an undead ping?
MATT: Nope. What's interesting is that one of its
lower appendages, its right leg, as you're
watching, curls up and then unfurls. One of its
legs seems to move similarly to one of the
appendages of Frumpkin.
TRAVIS: Oh no.
MATT: Just one. The others appear to be human.
SAM: One person or one limb?
MATT: One limb.
LAURA: It's like the snake people on the other
island.
MARISHA: That's some Cthulhuian shit.
SAM: They all have one octopus tentacle?
MATT: Well, the nearest one you saw has. You
aren't close enough to the others to make out what
their physical representation is.
TALIESIN: I'm relaying that to everybody very
quietly.
LAURA: Where do we go, Fjord?
MATT: You have five here that are watching. You
have to decide, what is it going to be? Is it a
brazen attack? Is it some form of a stealth
mission? What are you doing?
TRAVIS and MARISHA: Quietly.
ASHLEY: That's a good idea.
SAM: Should we make a distraction or anything?
MATT: They're clustered enough around where
they're not going to not see you. You have nothing
you're hiding behind.
TRAVIS: We can't HALO drop in this bitch?
MATT: No, a stealth mission in this would be
invisibility. You would have to do something where
they cannot see you. Otherwise, they're going to
see you.
MARISHA: Quick and fast?
TRAVIS: Yeah, we can pair up.
MARISHA and SAM: Buddy system.
LAURA: I say we all attack each one until each one
is dead. We don't spread it out too much.
SAM: One at a time?
LAURA: Focus on--
MARISHA: The people?
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Or at least two. There's five.
MARISHA: Are they for sure going to attack us?
TRAVIS: Pretty sure. They look like they're on the
look, yeah.
MARISHA: Bad? Super bad? There are five?
LAURA: Yeah. I could Invoke Duplicity down there
and see if they attack us. If they do, then we can
attack them.
TALIESIN: It looks dangerous. I think it's
worth--
LAURA: Just going for it?
TRAVIS: Who's got a good range? Who's got some
good pop on a good range? You?
LIAM: Well, I can hit for sure, but--
TRAVIS: Does the water do anything to it?
LIAM: No.
LAURA: How spread out are they?
MATT: I mean, they're not a perfect ring of five
around the top. They're all hanging right towards
the top of the tower from the different layers of
seaweed. They're anywhere from 15 to 20 feet from
each other. Their arrangement is a bit uneven.
LIAM: They're wrapped up in the seaweed?
MATT: Mm-hmm.
LIAM: Are we sure we want to make a hit on these
things that are tangled up, as opposed to this one
that is free floating?
TRAVIS: There is one that is free?
MATT: Looking at them all, it looks like they're
less wrapped and tangled and more like they have
an arm or a leg that they've curled around it and
are anchoring themselves to it.
MARISHA: Like seahorses.
MATT: Kind of.
TRAVIS: How close do you need to be, Caleb?
LIAM: Not that close.
TRAVIS: I'm more of a fan of them coming to us,
frankly.
LIAM: Little over a hundred feet away.
TRAVIS: Let's get in range of whatever Caleb needs
to do, and then let's break off into three and four.
SAM: We're not on the floor of the sea? We're
above them?
MATT: You're above them.
TRAVIS: They can pick, but they've got to come to
us.
LIAM: Well, you tell me. As far as I'm concerned,
you're calling the shots here.
TRAVIS: Let's get within whatever you need. 120
feet? 100 feet? We'll try to stealth within that range.
MATT: Okay. Caduceus has made that journey. As you
continue to push in that direction, you get to the
exterior of that range. They seem to have not
noticed your presence, yet.
TRAVIS: Spread out. 30 feet between us, the two
groups. Clerics with each group.
TALIESIN: I'll stick with you.
MARISHA: I will not go with Yasha because Sentinel
and Sentinel.
LAURA: I'll go with Beau.
SAM: How about we four and the outside three?
MARISHA: Okay.
LIAM: I could either focus what I'm going to do on
one of them, or I could tickle all of them.
TRAVIS: All of them at the same time?
LIAM: It would just get their attention. It would
not solve anything.
TRAVIS: Wizard's choice. How about just one, and
you pick?
LIAM: Okay. Well, I will aim for the one closest.
I begin to weave my hands underwater and cast
Magic Missile.
SAM: I will simultaneously fire a crossbow bolt.
TALIESIN: Just for fun, I'll add into this with a
Sacred Flame.
MATT: All towards the same target?
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: I'll also send Eldritch Blast.
TALIESIN: See if we can knock one out.
LIAM: I'm casting at 2nd-level.
MATT: Okay. Those that need to roll attacks, roll
attacks. Those that need to roll damage, roll damage.
TALIESIN: Mine is a save against dex of 16.
MATT: Nope!
LAURA: Mine is also a save against dex of 15.
MATT: Natural 20.
TRAVIS: 26 and a 19.
MATT: Both hit.
SAM: 12 to hit.
MATT: 12 to hit? Hits.
TRAVIS: 21 points of Eldritch Blast.
TALIESIN: 11 points of radiant damage.
LIAM: Four beads of energy. Nine-- nein points
of damage.
SAM: Another 20 points of damage.
LIAM: Oh, 13, excuse me.
MATT: This entity, breathing under the water,
watches this glimmer of arcane energy. Its
attention turns up towards it as it releases the
seaweed. Then (multiple explosions), and goes limp
under the water as a small cloud of its own blood
begins to fill the space around it. At which
point, the other four look up and notice your
presence from the lights that have been glowing
and the death of one of its comrades.
MARISHA: Next target, maybe?
MATT: Roll initiative.
MARISHA: Natural one.
MATT: Ooh, not good. Well, not good for them,
either. 25 to 20?
TALIESIN: Is that with advantage? Oh.
ASHLEY: Yeah. That first one was good.
TRAVIS: 25 to 20?
TALIESIN: Cricket.
MATT: 20 to 15?
LIAM and LAURA: 18. Hey!
ASHLEY: 17.
SAM: 17! Who are you?
ASHLEY: Who is this?
MATT: All right, that's Yasha. 15 to ten?
TALIESIN: 13.
SAM: 11.
ASHLEY: I have to be close.
TALIESIN: Can you get down there and hold an
action?
MATT: Your movement is halved when you're
swimming, except for Fjord.
ASHLEY: Say again?
MATT: Your movement is halved while you're
swimming, just so you know. You guys are about a
hundred feet away, so it's going to take a little
bit to get there for the melee folk.
TRAVIS: Two. One.
MARISHA: Yeah. Five total for me.
TRAVIS: Oh, well then, you top me.
MARISHA: Dude, what? You rolled a two?
TRAVIS: Yeah. Plus zero.
MATT: Caleb, you're up first. Caleb and Jester,
the four of them now begin to quickly swim up in
your direction. They swim fast. They swim faster
than you do, at the very least.
MARISHA: Well, that makes sense.
MATT: About as fast as Fjord does.
TRAVIS: 30 feet?
MATT: Yep. You can see their webbed fingers and
the spines and the scales of their arms and legs.
They look like the Creature from the Black Lagoon,
with a little bit of a slight more humanoid nose
and mouth. They're now clambering up towards you
in the water. What are you guys doing?
LAURA: Guiding Bolt at the one coming closest.
MATT: Okay. Same one, or different target?
LIAM: No, I'm nibbling on some licorice root, and
casting Haste on Fjord, and backing away.
SAM: Haste on Fjord? Oh my god.
TRAVIS: Whoa.
MATT: It rolled a natural 20 again on its saving
throw! Two natural 20s in a row. Oh no, this is
Guiding Bolt, never mind. He doesn't roll
anything. Wasted natural 20, Matt. Well done! It's
okay. Roll your attack.
TALIESIN: Well done. You've already helped.
LAURA: 14?
MATT: 14? Yeah, that hits. Their armor class is
11.
TALIESIN: Whoa, good to know. Very low armor
class, easy to hit, which is usually dangerous.
They're going to be trouble when they get in
there.
LAURA: Okay, 14 points of radiant damage.
MATT: 14 points of radiant damage. It bursts and
glows underneath. It's still alive. You see the
blood splatter, and it has this glowing energy
surrounding its torso, making it easy to see in
the dark depths below. Awesome, that finished your
turn. You cast Haste. That ends your guys' round,
and you're backing away. Yasha, your turn.
ASHLEY: I am going to move as much as I can,
getting closer to them.
MATT: Okay, so movement of 15 feet. Dash 15 feet.
That'd be your full round there. Get you 30 feet
down, so you're about 60 or so-- well no, your
movement speed is 40, so it's 20, 20. Yeah, you're
about 60 feet away.
TALIESIN: Do you want to have an action held,
though?
ASHLEY: Yeah. I'm going to hold my action until
one of them either-- yeah, they get close to me.
MATT: You'll only move 20 feet, then, so you're 80
feet away. Got it, okay. You're holding your
action to hit whenever it comes close. All right,
that finishes your turn. Caduceus, you're up.
TALIESIN: I'm going to move just behind Yasha. Are
any of them within range at this point?
MATT: What range?
TALIESIN: 30 or 60.
MATT: No. They're about a hundred feet away. They
haven't taken their turn yet.
TALIESIN: Then I'm going to hold a spell until
they're within range.
MATT: What spell are you holding?
TALIESIN: I'm going to hold Bane.
MATT: Okay. Finishes your go. Nott, you're up.
SAM: Oh, me? I'm going to swim-- well, no. I have
ranged attacks, so I'm going to just pick one, the
one that Jester missed.
MATT: What's your interior range with your
weapon?
SAM: Oh, 30. No, I've been rolling at disadvantage
for-- it's 30 or 120 from the Tinkertop
Boltblaster. I rolled at disadvantage last time.
TALIESIN: Underwater?
LAURA: No, because a crossbow you don't roll at
disadvantage.
SAM: It's ranged disadvantage.
MATT: Correct. Automatically misses a target
beyond the weapon's normal range. You don't roll
disadvantage for the first half, the first 30
feet, but anything beyond 30 feet is an automatic
miss because at that point it loses momentum and
can't keep traveling.
SAM: Oh, underwater? Oh! I did not know that.
MATT: Which you just learned.
SAM: Oh. Well then, I didn't hit the first one.
MATT: You didn't need to. You guys fucking
destroyed it. Before it came to you, it was
already dead.
SAM: It has to be within 30 underwater to hit?
MATT: You've learned.
SAM: I still do disadvantage.
MATT: No, you do not roll disadvantage if it's
ranged.
SAM: Okay, got it. I fire and nothing happens.
MATT: It goes (shearing) and just floats.
SAM: Oh, shit. I'll start going towards it.
MATT: Okay, so you swim 15 feet. You can bonus
action dash if you want.
SAM: Yes, I will bonus action dash to make it 30
feet.
MATT: 30 feet in, that gets there. Now it's their
turn. They all double-move 60 feet as they swim
upwards, getting as close as they can. That
definitely gets them in range for your spell.
TALIESIN: I'm going to hit three of them with
Bane.
MATT: You were 80 feet, so no one gets into range
with you. So Bane. You're hitting three of them
with Bane.
TALIESIN: Three of them with Bane. It's a charisma
saving throw.
MATT: Okay, there's three of them that have not
been hit. There's one that has.
TALIESIN: I'm hitting the ones that have not been
hit.
MATT: Got it, all right. Saving throw is wisdom?
TALIESIN: Charisma.
MATT: Sorry, charisma. Ooh, minus one for them.
Fail, fail, and fail!
ASHLEY: Wait, they were 80 feet away?
MATT: They were 80 feet away from you, and they
just moved 60 feet. There's 20 feet between the
two of you now.
ASHLEY: Oh, from where I had gotten to with the 20
feet. Got it.
MATT: All three of them fail. All three of them
are Baned.
TALIESIN: Yeah. Attacks and savings throws, 1d4.
MATT: Got it. Beau, you're up.
MARISHA: Oh, shit. Anyone in range?
MATT: They're about 40 feet from you.
MARISHA: Oh! Yeah, I'll swim-- which one is
closest? All of them? All four of them?
LAURA: I've hit one of them with Guiding Bolt, and
you have advantage against it.
MARISHA: I'll take that one. I'll swim.
MATT: You move towards the one that is glowing.
You swim down. That's 20 feet, so you're still 20
feet away.
TRAVIS: Is it just hers at advantage, or all
attacks against it?
TALIESIN: Just the first one.
MARISHA: I will spend a ki point to do Swim of the
Wind.
MATT: That's the additional 20 feet. That will get
you right into range of the one Jester hit. It's
like (snarling). As you get really up close to it
now, with the glowing light around it, you get a
good look at its face. It's covered in layers of
scales and spined points that come out at various
points of its facial features. Its eyes are yellow
and a sick little side lens that closes.
LAURA: Ew. X-Files.
MARISHA: Punch. Jesus Christ.
MATT: You have advantage because of the Guiding
Bolt.
MARISHA: Right, thank you, Jester! Ooh, that's
much better. 18?
MATT: 18 hits.
MARISHA: I'll use my fist.
MATT: Oh, but you do have disadvantage underwater
with melee attacks, however. So it cancels out.
What was your first roll?
MARISHA: It was a three plus seven, so ten?
MATT: Ten misses. That first strike just-- it's
too slow.
MARISHA: Second attack. Almost a natural 20, but
it wasn't. 13?
MATT: 13 hits.
MARISHA: Oh, that's fun!
LAURA: Would it still be at disadvantage, though,
on the second attack?
MATT: It would be.
MARISHA: Fuck, balls, shit, cock. Still hits.
LAURA: That's my favorite combo.
MARISHA: Five damage.
MATT: Five damage. It's hurt, but it's still
going. That's the end of your turn, Beau?
MARISHA: Yep.
MATT: Fjord, you're up. Your speed is 60
underwater, so you can go to any of them.
TRAVIS: I will join Beau, just in case someone
decides to fuck around.
MATT: You Aquaman it through the water towards it.
TRAVIS: I'll fire the first two Eldritch Blasts at
one of them that's swimming, though not the one
that's in melee of her.
MATT: Okay. The first one's going to be at one of
the ones that's untouched.
TRAVIS: That sucks. That's a one and a two, so I
think both of those fucking miss. That's incredible.
MATT: Yep. Both (whiffing).
MARISHA: We're rolling like garbage.
TRAVIS: I'll fire the next two--
MATT: Next two?
TRAVIS: Because I'm hasted, so I have a second
attack?
MATT: The second attack action can only be used
for a single weapon attack or disengage, dash--
TRAVIS: Oh, shit.
MATT: Yeah, so you have to use your sword.
LAURA: Use your sword!
TRAVIS: Yeah, I guess I'll just--
LAURA: Attack the one at Beau.
TRAVIS: -- summon the falchion and take a swing at
it.
MATT: The falchion comes into your hand. You dash
towards which one? The one with Beau or--?
TRAVIS: It's a two. I do nothing. Nothing.
MATT: Oh, buddy. Underwater man not feeling very
underwater-like right now, unfortunately!
TRAVIS: (singing) Shitty rolls!
MATT: That's okay. Finishes your go. Top of the
round, Caleb and Jester.
SAM: Well, that was easy.
LAURA: Okay. I'm going Toll the Dead at the one at
Beau.
MATT: It makes its saving throw.
TALIESIN: Negative d4.
MATT: That's right. That's a natural 16--
TALIESIN: Oh wait, no, not that one. I'm so sorry.
Not that one. That one doesn't have the d4.
MATT: What was the save?
LAURA: Wisdom. 15.
MATT: Yeah, it's 16. Sorry. That finishes your
turn, then, or are you going to move closer? Stay put?
LAURA: I'm going to stay put.
MATT: All right, you stay put. Caleb.
LIAM: I'm going to try to do a bit of a science
experiment, and cast Fire Bolt at the one next to
Beauregard, and see if it even works down here.
MATT: Okay. At your range, roll for attack.
LIAM: Okay. Ah, no. I rolled a two.
TRAVIS: What the fuck!
MATT: It travels half the distance, then sputters
out, consumed by the ocean.
SAM: Oh, so it wouldn't have worked?
MATT: You don't know.
LIAM: I move back.
MATT: You move back even further. Yasha, you're
up.
LAURA: Yasha, you better fucking help us.
MATT: You can move your 20 feet and get in range
for any of them.
ASHLEY: I'm going to move my 20 feet and get into
range.
MATT: Take your pick. There's three untouched, and
there's one that Beau has done some damage to.
ASHLEY: I'll get to it on the other side. I'll get
to whichever's closest. They're on the other side,
right, of the group?
MATT: Yes.
ASHLEY: Yeah. I'll get one, whoever's closest to
me.
MATT: One of those that's untouched yet. It's
disadvantage on your attacks with melee underwater.
ASHLEY: Unless I reckless.
MATT: Unless you're reckless, in which case
they're straight rolls. Are you reckless?
ASHLEY: Let's do that. I'm reckless.
MATT: Go for it. First attack, single roll.
ASHLEY: Yeah, that'll hit. 23.
MATT: 23 hits. Roll damage. This is your full
3d6.
LAURA: Are you raging?
ASHLEY: I'm raging.
MATT: Okay, there you go. I'll let you do that.
ASHLEY: Sorry.
MATT: It's okay. Remember that.
ASHLEY: All right. 20.
MATT: 20 points with the first strike. It carves
through, immediately filling the water around it
with its dark blood as it scrambles around. Looks
pretty hurt.
ASHLEY: Okay. Second attack, I'll hit it again.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM: Come on!
ASHLEY: Ugh. Reckless.
MATT: Well, reckless is a single attack.
ASHLEY: Got it. That was a natural one.
MATT: Ooh, no. Second one goes wide. You're not
used to fighting underwater. You've only done it a
few times, and still, it's a big blade through a
lot of resistance. That finishes your go.
Caduceus, you're up.
TALIESIN: I'm going to keep my distance. I'm going
to back up a little bit, and I'm going to use
Sacred Flame on the one that is in combat with
Yasha. It's dex save.
MATT: Natural seven. That's a failure. It has a
minus one.
TALIESIN: Do I want to do this? Yeah. Five points
of radiant damage.
MATT: The burst of light from underneath it hits
it. It starts gurgling in pain.
LAURA: That was a seven. That wasn't a one. That
was a seven and a four.
TALIESIN: Thank you. 11 points of radiant damage.
Thank you. My brain is burnt.
MATT: It is holding on by a thread. It is torn
asunder, and you can-- bless you. It's obscured by
a cloud of its own murky blood right now. That
finishes your turn, Caduceus? Nott, you're up.
SAM: Fire at the one next to Beau. 14 to hit.
MATT: 14 hits. Roll damage.
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: Okay, okay, okay. Ten.
LAURA: That's the first time I've heard Sam say
"Okay, okay, okay."
SAM and ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay.
(laughter)
SAM: 27.
MATT: (impact) It is done.
SAM: (crossbow reloading) Bonus action. Shoot the
one next to Yasha.
MATT: Okay, go for it.
SAM: That doesn't hit. Only 11.
MATT: 11 hits exactly.
SAM: Oh, yay. Actually, it's 13. I lied.
MATT: Even better! There you go. Definitely hits.
SAM: Not sneak attack. I only get that once.
MATT: Correct. You only get that once per turn.
SAM: Three plus five. Eight.
MATT: Eight damage. One (gurgling); the other one
(gurgling). Two immediate fires. Two of them go
limp and begin to float in their own ichor. Well
done.
SAM: I swim closer to Caleb.
MATT: Okay, finishes Nott's go. It's their turn.
Now they're in range. Two of them move, one of
them towards you, Yasha, and one's against Beau.
Trying to-- it's been a lot.
MARISHA: You can call me Yasha. I'll take it.
MATT: It's going to make two attacks against you
with its unarmed strike. It's clawing at you with
its hands. That is a 12 and a 19.
MARISHA: Miss. Second one hits.
TALIESIN: Is that with a negative d4?
MATT: Oh, no. Let me do that. 18. Misses!
TRAVIS: Fucking Bane, man!
MARISHA: AC 19.
MATT: On the third strike, it's going to use its
Piscine Anatomy.
LAURA: What is that?
MARISHA: It has a prehensile penis. Sorry.
TALIESIN: Ruin everything.
MATT: I mean, one of the other ones, maybe, but
that one, no. This one, it strikes twice at you
with its claws. Then its throat (bubbling,
spitting), and it spits this tiny needle towards you.
LIAM: (exaggerated Southern accent)
Careful, they spit.
LAURA: (exaggerated Southern accent)
Careful, they spit needles.
MATT: That's going to be 21. Oh, with another
negative three. 18.
MARISHA: Miss!
TALIESIN: I love Bane so much. Where has it been
all my life? Oh! It's so hateful.
MATT: The other one is going to attack you twice,
Yasha. You were reckless, so it has advantage on
its attacks against you. It would be 19 and a 16.
19 minus two, so it's a 17.
ASHLEY: Hits.
MATT: 16 minus three is a 13.
ASHLEY: Doesn't hit. So one hits.
MATT: One hits you for six points of piercing
damage, as it claws-- or this would be a bite. It
grabs and bites towards you.
TALIESIN: Reduced to half?
MATT: Oh, no, it's a strike, so bludgeoning. It's
halved to three. You take three points of
bludgeoning damage. This one is going to attempt
to grab you with the tentacle. Natural 20.
TALIESIN: Does he get a bonus for that natural 20?
Does he get some sort of bonus to that natural 20?
Does that make something better about that?
MATT: You don't know.
TALIESIN: I mean, because I'm going to cancel it,
if it does anything.
MATT: It's a critical hit, up to you. Are you
canceling it or not?
TALIESIN: I'm canceling it.
MATT: Okay. It still hits, but it's not a
critical. You take eight points of bludgeoning
damage, reduced to four, and you are grappled. As
its tentacle reaches around you, another one that
looks like it has a protrusion from its chest,
almost like a third arm-- it's a tentacle that
wraps around, and grabs at your torso, and is
crushing you. You can feel faint bits of it that
are scraping at the skin. That finishes their
turn. Beau, you're up.
MARISHA: The one in front of me is dead. I head to
the next one. How far away?
MATT: There's the one that was attacking you
that's right in your face, and there's the one
that's grappled Yasha with a tentacle.
SAM: A different one swam up to you.
MARISHA: Yasha's fine. I'll hit the one in front
of me.
MATT: Go for it. Two attacks with disadvantage.
MARISHA: First attack with disadvantage hits.
That's a natural 14. I'm going to use my staff on
this one. I hope he is fine with non-magical
attacks. Eight damage.
MATT: Eight damage, all righty. (impact)
MARISHA: Did it look like he took the full
damage?
MATT: It looks like a person or a creature that
had been hit with a staff pretty hard.
MARISHA: Mm-hmm. Sticks hurt. Next one, probably.
11?
MATT: 11 just hits.
MARISHA: Oh! That's a lot. 12.
MATT: 12 points of damage. Its jaw snaps out of
place. It looks like it's trying to bite towards
you, but its jaw is limply unable to close.
MARISHA: It's still going?
MATT: It's still going.
MARISHA: Flurry of Blows.
MATT: Ki point. Two more hits.
MARISHA: Ki point. Two more hits. First one hits,
barely, but hits with a 13.
MATT: All right, roll your--
MARISHA: Mm-hmm! 11 damage.
MATT: 11 damage? You crack again. The jaw actually
tears off, and blood's filling. Its eyes are going
wide. It's barely holding on.
MARISHA: No, sorry, six plus four. Ten.
MATT: Okay, so ten damage, gotcha. All right,
that's all right. And your final attack?
MARISHA: I was looking at my wrong thing. Hits,
and one more time. Please, die. Six.
MATT: Okay. With the last hit as its jaw snapped
apart, you grab its head and ram it into your
knee, and as you pull the leg back, the face is
collapsed inward and it goes limp.
LAURA: Eww.
MARISHA: I do that thing where I try to water
current its bloody guts away from me so I'm not
inhaling it.
MATT: Like, "Oh, god." Okay. That finishes your
go. Fjord.
TRAVIS: How many are up still?
MATT: One left and it currently has Yasha grappled
in the tentacle and trying to crush her.
TRAVIS: So here's a question, that very first one
that we lit up like the Godfather?
MATT: Yep.
TRAVIS: With my bonus action, can I reach out,
since I was part of the killing of-- are these
creatures humanoids?
MATT: They are.
TRAVIS: Can I reach forward and go: (in a demonic
voice) Rise, and I'll Accursed Specter the creature.
MATT: You may. As the body is floating in the
water away, this cold sensation takes the nearby
20-foot radius around it. What little bit of light
is filtering through here gets darker and a
darkened spectral form emerges from its body. This
ghostly wraith emerges from the corpse under
Fjord's command.
TRAVIS: I'll say that and go (concussion sound)
and throw two more Eldritch Blasts at the one
that's remaining.
MATT: Go for it.
TRAVIS: That's a 24.
MATT: That hits.
TRAVIS: The other one is a 14.
MATT: That hits. Damage on both.
TRAVIS: (singing) This is the age of Aquarius.
That's ten points and eight. So 18.
MATT: 18 points of damage. Both bolts (impact
sounds) into it. It's damaged, but it's still
holding on and it's turning towards--
TRAVIS: Great. I'll take my speed and rush at it.
MATT: Dash in with the blade out at the side.
TRAVIS: Take a strike.
MATT: Make your strike.
TRAVIS: Oh, dope. 16.
MATT: You do not have disadvantage because of your
armor, so that hits. Go ahead and roll damage with
your blade.
TRAVIS: 1d8 plus-- two points of damage. One plus
one.
SAM: Nice!
MATT: Well--
TRAVIS: It's 1d8 plus one.
MATT: Don't you get to add your charisma modifier
to the damage bonus?
TRAVIS: I don't see that on here.
MATT: Pretty sure as a hexblade warlock you get to
add your charisma bonus to attack and damage
rolls, right? Am I wrong about that?
TRAVIS: I ain't been doing it.
MATT: You have in the past, I'm pretty sure,
unless I'm reading this wrong.
TRAVIS: I thought it would be added into the
weapon, naturally.
MARISHA: D&D Beyond?
MATT: It should be.
TRAVIS: Yeah, it just says 1d8 plus one.
SAM: Call tech support.
MATT: Yeah, it's based on your strength. Maybe it
updated recently and that got reset.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MATT: I'll have to double check because--
TRAVIS: My charisma bonus is four.
MATT: Correct.
LAURA: So it would be five more points of--
MATT: Well, it should be an additional plus four
damage, is what it should be.
TRAVIS: Yeah. So it would be six on a two.
MATT: Yeah, right. I'll fix that.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MATT: Okay. After the two impacts and the sword
slicing through it, it's still standing, but it's
hurt. It's still holding onto Yasha and right now
it's distracted, trying to figure out which way to
go. That finishes your go, Fjord?
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
MATT: Caleb and Jester, you're up next.
LIAM: What's left? What's--
MATT: There's one holding onto Yasha.
LIAM: Oh, Magic Missile.
LAURA: Toll the Dead at the same time!
MARISHA: Yeah!
MATT: That is a 13 on its Toll the Dead.
LAURA: Ah! Doesn't save.
MATT: And the-- 12 damage?
LIAM: Yeah.
LAURA: Oh. 22 points.
MATT: Ooh.
TALIESIN: Jesus.
LAURA: Of (tolling bell) damage through the
water.
MATT: As the tentacle is grappling and crushing
your body and you're trying to find a way to force
your way through, suddenly, the tentacle just
pulls away. You look over towards it; the tentacle
isn't attached to anything. It is turned to chum
in the water as bits of its scattered body begin
to slowly dissipate and disseminate throughout the
nearby sea.
LAURA: The Toll the Dead vibrations going through
the water so all of us can feel it.
MATT: (thrumming) Magic Missiles impacting and
scattering its form. Currently, there doesn't
appear to be any of these creatures around you.
There's just the darkness of the tower below and
whatever the inside of it holds.
LAURA: Go team!
SAM: That was good. Anyone need healing?
MARISHA: I'm good.
ASHLEY: I'm fine.
TRAVIS: We have a friend.
MARISHA: What?
TRAVIS: I'll bring the specter forward.
MATT: It's hard to see this low in the water when
there's so little light when it's not moving. Once
it shifts, it's like watching a shadow out of the
corner of your eye, with these two faintly dull,
glowing yellow eyes. It's vaguely humanoid in its
shape, but it's almost smoky and amorphous when it
shifts and moves and finds its place nearby. Its
head lolls around a bit, mimicking the shape and
the movement of the creature before it was engaged
in combat.
TRAVIS: I feel bad having Frumpkin be the one
that's always putting himself in harm's way,
thought I'd give him a friend. I'll send the
specter towards the mouth of the tower.
MATT: Okay. You sending it in there by itself?
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
MATT: Okay.
ASHLEY: Oh, why--?
MATT: You guys watch as the specter vanishes into
the shadow of the tower below.
SAM: Does anything happen?
LAURA: Can you see through its eyes like
Frumpkin?
TRAVIS: Nope.
SAM: Just send him away?
TRAVIS: I just wanted to send him to the
entrance.
MATT: Oh, just the entrance?
TRAVIS: Yeah, just to the front.
MATT: Okay. It moves, comes to the top--
TRAVIS: Just to make sure the tower's not like
(violent chomping).
MATT: No, it does not open its maw and devour your
specter.
TRAVIS: Don't make that face! I wouldn't put that
past you for one second.
MATT: Fair enough. Yeah, it drifts in and once it
hits the mouth of it, it's near impossible to see
because it's just black on black until you see its
head turn and you can see the very faint light of
its eyes. It sits there, awaiting its next
command. It's making you uncomfortable.
TALIESIN: Yeah, no, I'm pretty uncomfortable about
all of this. Yeah.
TRAVIS: It's not a permanent thing.
TALIESIN: This is definitely getting very
after-school special for me and the kid just
brought out the bag of weed in the after-school
special and I'm like, "Oh."
TRAVIS: Just give it a try.
TALIESIN: Oh, the police officer came to our
school and talked about this. Okay.
TRAVIS: Ruh-roh, hey kids.
TALIESIN: No. (sighs) Yeah, all right, let's do
this.
LAURA: There's no other entrance on the tower?
Just the one? That we see?
MATT: As far as you can tell, there is just the
one entrance.
TRAVIS: Yeah. We'll move closer.
MATT: If you want to try and swim along the edges
of it, you can look for other entrances.
LIAM: Hold on a minute. Go. Look around the
tower.
MATT: Perception check for Frumpkin, please.
LIAM: Yeah. He'll spiral around, look for any
other entrances. Oh jeez, it jumped on the box,
cocked. Natural one.
MATT: Okay. Frumpkin, having a hard time seeing
through the clustered seaweed. Around its base-- I
mean, with a natural one, yeah, you don't see
anything. Frumpkin makes out no shapes or anything
within that period. Frumpkin's not used to being
an octopus, okay? He still hasn't quite figured it out.
LIAM: That's what I've been saying all this time.
TRAVIS: I'm a bit faster. I'll go.
LIAM: I summon my octopus back to my head.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: Hang back for a second. I'll use 45 feet
of my speed to move forward.
MATT: You're not in combat right now so we can
just--
TRAVIS: I'm still fucking Hasted.
MATT: That's true, though you're getting really
close to the end of it. It lasts for a minute so--
TRAVIS: Oh, does it? Sorry.
LIAM: We did some talking.
MATT: You guys have been chatting back and forth
and doing this, and especially with Frumpkin
looking around like that, yeah, Haste has worn
off.
TRAVIS: Now I have one level of exhaustion,
right?
MATT: No, you just get stunned for a round.
But you're not in combat anymore.
LIAM: You just went (gasping), and then it's
gone.
MATT: Yeah, a little heart palpitation moment.
Okay. Are you going to do a spiral around it or
are you going to go down one side? What are you
doing? Are you just stopping?
TRAVIS: Are we above it?
MATT: You guys are above it. At this point, you're
about 60 or so feet above the top of this curved tower.
TRAVIS: It's at an angle, right?
MATT: It's at a slight angle, yeah.
LIAM: Travis, how are you going to handle the
shaft?
TRAVIS: I'd like to spiral down, slowly making my
way around the top so I can see.
MATT: Okay. Are you doing it stealthily or are you
trying to go for speed?
TRAVIS: Stealthily.
MATT: All right. It'll take you a little bit, but
go ahead and roll a stealth check.
LIAM: Start at the base.
LAURA: Oh, I give-- bless you!
SAM: (mocking Laura in gibberish)
TRAVIS: What is that for?
LAURA: You get advantage.
TRAVIS: I do get advantage?
MATT: Yeah. Blessing of the Trickster.
TRAVIS: That's good. Ugh. Nine.
MARISHA: Nein.
MATT: All right. Make a perception check for me,
please, as you're keeping an eye out.
LAURA: I'm also keeping an eye out to see if I see
anything come out of the front entrance.
MATT: Okay. Make a perception check.
TRAVIS: 16.
MATT: All right. As you curl down, there are
slits. There are narrow peering points at
different areas. You do see the occasional window
or an opening where somebody could probably
squeeze through. At the very base of it, there
does appear to be an open doorway.
TRAVIS: The top of the tower is open and it
continues through the middle?
MATT: Correct.
LAURA: 17 perception.
MATT: Okay. You're keeping an eye out from the
top. As you head down, you see that entranceway,
look over, look around and see the other faint
bits of windows. You look back down at the door
and you see the very edge of something in the
door. You see a yellowish-green shape, looks
almost-- best I can describe it at this distance
is a hint of crustacean that then vanishes into
the doorway.
TRAVIS: I swim over to the edge of the tower to
try and lean up against the side of it. Make
myself less obvious out in the open water.
MATT: Okay. You wait for 30 seconds. A minute.
TRAVIS: Does somebody appear?
MATT: Nothing, but you get the sense that
something noticed you.
TRAVIS: Well, don't want to go in that way. I wave
everybody down.
MARISHA: I swim down.
MATT: Okay, you all join Fjord.
TRAVIS: I will relay that there is a doorway down
near the bottom, but something poked its pretty
head out.
LAURA: What did it look like?
TRAVIS: Kind of greenish-yellow. Couldn't quite
see, but it kind of looked like an overgrown
shrimp, crab-type thing. Kind of crustacean-y.
LAURA: That's weird.
TRAVIS: Yeah. Might just be the local wildlife,
right? What are the chances? We could just send
our guest here down.
LAURA: See if it attacks it? Sure.
TRAVIS: Or we could go through the tunnel.
LIAM: Maybe we could send your friend in the door
at the bottom while we go in the top?
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: I'd be fine with that. I will command the
specter to move towards the doorway and engage
anything it finds.
MATT: Okay. The specter drifts down to the center
of the doorway and hangs there.
TRAVIS: Just at the doorway?
LAURA: What does that mean? What did that delayed
reaction mean?
TRAVIS: I push him inside.
MATT: Okay. The specter vanishes inside.
TRAVIS: Commotion?
MATT: Make a perception check.
LAURA: Ugh.
TRAVIS: Balls. Ass. Three.
MATT: Yeah, you don't hear anything. Caduceus,
just instinctually, you hear what sounds like the
thrashing of water, the impact of scraping against
stone, more thrashing, then silence.
TALIESIN: I think that was the end of your ghost
friend.
TRAVIS: I don't know, they're pretty resilient,
but, okay.
SAM: Yeah, maybe he won.
TALIESIN: No. That was the end.
TRAVIS: Well, let's assume then-- shall we assume
flanking positions?
LAURA: Are we going in the top tunnel or the
bottom?
TRAVIS: You know, if it's crustacean-y and it's
treating this tower as a shell, maybe I don't want
to fight it in there.
LIAM: What do you propose?
MARISHA: I mean, it feels like this stuff is
always at the bottom or at the end.
TRAVIS: How about we drop to the floor about 60
feet from the doorway and send in a care package?
LAURA: Oh, attacks?
TRAVIS: Yeah. Anything ranged.
LAURA: Okay.
TRAVIS: See if we get lucky.
LAURA: All right.
TRAVIS: I'll descend to the floor, keeping about
60 feet from the outside of the doorway.
LAURA: Follow behind him and land.
MATT: Okay, you're both now resting a distance
from it.
MARISHA: Can I-- because I've got shit when it
comes to range-- cheat the distance and see if I
can peek in from the top of the tower down?
MATT: Make a perception check.
MARISHA: While they do this? Okay, 18.
MATT: With a lack of light-- you have your
goggles, which helps-- you can barely make out
shapes, and there's a few of them. It's like
looking into a boiling pot where there's shapes
shifting in different places, clustered. With what
little bit you can see at your peripheral, it's
like whatever texture the bottom of this temple
has, the texture is moving.
ASHLEY: How many feet down did you say from the
top?
MATT: From the top? It's about 60 feet.
MARISHA: While you guys sink, I went and peeked
through one of those windows and looked down.
ASHLEY: Can I try and giving a look-see too
because I have darkvision?
MATT: Sure.
MARISHA: I do, too.
ASHLEY: Oh, you already have it?
MARISHA: Go ahead. You might roll higher than I
did.
ASHLEY: What would the roll be? Is it perception?
MATT: Mm-hmm.
ASHLEY: 16.
MATT: You make out the same thing.
LIAM: I poof a little globule of light in my hand
and motion to Beauregard from far away and go--
TALIESIN: I mean, they already know we're here.
MARISHA: I look at Yasha: What do you think? Light
or no?
LIAM: I make three more.
ASHLEY: They do know we're here.
MARISHA: Okay. I go-- over to Caleb, and Yasha and
I look in as he sends them in.
MATT: Do you send them in?
LIAM: How tall is the tower roughly?
MATT: It's a little more than 60 feet tall to the
peak.
LIAM: Okay, so I will stay 50 or 60 feet away from
the tower and I will send one in the top, one in
the bottom, and two through windows.
MATT: Okay. As you guys are paying attention and
glance inside, there are different shelves of
broken floors that have either fallen through or
stairs that have collapsed where there's-- you can
see where at one point, this temple may have been
ascended by somebody, but a hollow on the inside
towards the base of it. You can see three of these
large creatures covered in chitinous-like armor.
Their lower half has four legs that are
insect-like, or you could say crab-like if you
will, and then the upper torso has two large
pincers that are jagged on the inside. Their
face-- you don't see eyes; it's this smooth
surface with a series of these weird worm-like
tentacles that emerge from underneath the mouth
that curl. As soon as the light hits, they begin
to look around towards it and glancing up and they
have all backed into it and that shape that you
were seeing before was all three of them clustered
together and rotating and moving in the space.
MARISHA: But they're backing away from the light?
MATT: They're not backing away from it. They're
back-to-back, looking and preparing for whatever
is the source of this.
TRAVIS: You got a fluffernutter ready to go?
SAM: I do not.
TRAVIS: Well, I don't even know why you're down
here.
SAM: But I can make them laugh.
LAURA: Who's within 30 feet?
TRAVIS: I am.
LAURA: You are. You are Nott. Yasha.
LIAM: 30 feet from you or from the temple?
LAURA: Yeah. Who's within 30 feet of me?
LIAM: I might be. You're always back.
LAURA: I don't think you would benefit from this.
TRAVIS: You're on the floor, right?
LAURA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: You want heavy in combat, so you would
want--
SAM: I have explosive arrows, but I don't think
they'll work underwater.
MARISHA: How far up are Yasha and I from the
floor?
MATT: You are about 50 or so feet, let's say. If
you want to get closer.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MARISHA: Yeah, we'll drop down and join Jester and
co.
SAM: Before we mount this attack, I'm going to
swim up to Caleb and say: I'm glad you forgot
about us before, it means you're thinking about
them, but I won't stop thinking about you and I'll
give him one of the healing potions. Take this.
LAURA: Are we about to do this now? I'm going to
Bless, taking a cue from Caduceus, on Yasha, Beau,
and Fjord.
MARISHA: Thanks, friend.
TRAVIS: What's that do again?
LAURA: That gives you a d4 to add to your attack
rolls and saving throws.
TRAVIS: Got it.
MATT: Mark down your Bless.
TALIESIN: Right as it begins.
MATT: All right. Is everyone gathering on the
floor?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: You've all descended down to the floor of
the ocean about roughly 50, 60 feet from this open
doorway that leads inside the temple. As you have
your spells prepared, ready to delve inside, you
take a breath of the deep ocean water in your
lungs and exhale its thick, cold liquid and steel
yourself for us to pick up in the new year.
MARISHA: I knew it!
TRAVIS: Fuck. Did that Accursed Specter do any
damage?
MATT: Oh, no, it did some.
TRAVIS: Oh good, okay! Good job, Carl.
LAURA: I'm picturing those big creatures that are
in The Dark Crystal. You know what I'm talking about?
MATT: That's what you saw.
LAURA: Oh fuck, that's way scarier--
TALIESIN: Hey! Look at that!
TRAVIS: What is that?
MATT: That's what you'll get to see next week.
TALIESIN: Well, not next week.
MATT: Or no, sorry, in three weeks. Next year.
TRAVIS: Put seahorses instead.
LAURA: What date are we starting back up again?
MATT: The 10th I think?
LAURA and TALIESIN: The 10th.
MATT: I believe it's the 10th.
LAURA: Oh man.
MATT: All righty, we'll pick up for that. Ah!
TRAVIS: Oh shit, I'm excited!
TALIESIN: Bless! Oh, I love Bless.
LAURA: Oh my goodness. Yeah, that's cool.
TALIESIN: Bless and Bane, man.
MATT: Bless and Bane. Two underappreciated
spells.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: It's too much of that expression, Sam,
tonight. It's been glaring at me the entire time.
TRAVIS: Look at that forked tongue.
TALIESIN: Yeah, are we going to talk about the
Riegel in the room?
LAURA: Ooh, it does look like a forked tongue.
What the fuck is going on?
SAM: I'm half-devil.
TALIESIN: How do you have a dimple-- you have a
movie star chin dimple. It's right there.
TRAVIS: You got ass-tongue.
TALIESIN: The tongue is saving a woman tied to a
railroad track.
TRAVIS: The baby's butt coming out of your mouth.
LIAM: Yeah. It's a front-bottom.
MATT: Well guys. Thank you so much.
TRAVIS: Thank you, Matt!
MATT: Ashley, I missed having you here.
ASHLEY: This is so fun.
TALIESIN: We missed you so much!
ASHLEY: Oh gosh.
TRAVIS: What a great 2018, guys.
ASHLEY: Hey, what a great 2018!
MATT: Not a bad year. A stressful and crazy year,
but a very good year.
LAURA: Sleep for a hundred years.
TRAVIS: Yeah, seriously.
MARISHA: Weeks of sleep.
MATT: We'll be back in a few weeks.
TRAVIS: Stay tuned for tomorrow night for
Liam's--
MATT: Yeah, for Liam's one-shot!
LIAM: The madness.
ASHLEY: It was the best.
LIAM: Oh my god.
TALIESIN: Still littered with candy canes.
LAURA: I love you, guys!
MATT: Love you guys.
LAURA: Love you every year together.
ALL: Merry Christmas.
MATT: Merry Christmas. Happy holidays. Happy
holidays to you guys. Man, we're going to miss
you, but we'll be back soon! We'll keep tabs;
we'll see you on the internet. In the meantime--
MARISHA: Merry Christmas!
MATT: That's my wife, ladies and gentlemen.
TRAVIS: Boof!
LIAM: That was my wife.
MARISHA: Merry Christmas.
LAURA: And a Happy New Year!
MATT: I know. We'll see you guys in the new year.
Enjoy. Know we love you very much and is it
Thursday in three weeks yet? Good night. Happy
holidays, Happy New Year!
[music]